I'M GWEN IFILL. JUDY
WOODRUFF IS AWAY.
JUDY WOODRUFF IS AWAY.
ON THE NEWSHOUR TONIGHT:
ANOTHER DEADLY DAY IN AMERICA.
GUNMEN IN MILITARY-STYLE GEAR
GUNMEN IN MILITARY-STYLE GEAR OP
FIRENE AT A CENTER FOR SOCIAL
OP FIRENE AT A CENTER FOR SOCIAL
SERVICES IN SAN BERNADINO,
SERVICES IN SAN
BERNADINO, CALIFORNIA.
CALIFORNIA. MULTIPLE
PEOPLE WERE SHOT AND
MULTIPLE PEOPLE WERE SHOT
AND AT LEAST 14 KILLED.
AT LEAST 14 KILLED. ALSO
AHEAD, OUR SPECIAL SERIES
ALSO AHEAD, OUR SPECIAL SERIES
"NIGERIA: PAIN & PROMISE"
CONTINUES WITH A SPOTLIGHT ON
ONE OF THE BIGGEST OBSTACLES TO
ONE OF THE BIGGEST
OBSTACLES TO PROGRESS.
PROGRESS. >> IN NIGERIA
THE CORRUPTION IS,
>> IN NIGERIA THE CORRUPTION
IS, SADLY, EVERYWHERE.
SADLY, EVERYWHERE.
SHOPKEEPERS HERE SAY POLICE
PRESIDE OVER A MARKET OF FAKE
PRESIDE OVER A MARKET
OF FAKE MEDICINE.
MEDICINE. I'VE BEEN
ASKED FOR BRIBES BY
I'VE BEEN ASKED FOR BRIBES BY
POLICE OFFICERS, BY SOLDIERS, BY
AIRPORT SECURITY OFFICERS BEHIND
AIRPORT SECURITY OFFICERS
BEHIND THE X-RAY MACHINE.
THE X-RAY MACHINE. IN
NIGERIA, THCANCE ER OF
IN NIGERIA, THCANCE ER OF
CORRUPTION HAS BEEN SPREADING
CORRUPTION HAS BEEN
SPREADING FOR YEARS.
FOR YEARS. >> Ifill:
AND, WE EXPLAIN WHY
>> Ifill: AND, WE EXPLAIN WHY
TWO DEGREES IS SO IMPORTANT TO
THOSE IN PARIS LOOKING TO COMBAT
THOSE IN PARIS LOOKING TO
COMBAT CLIMATE CHANGE.
CLIMATE CHANGE. ALL THAT
AND MORE ON TONIGHT'S
ALL THAT AND MORE ON
TONIGHT'S PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Ifill: AT LEAST 14 KILLED,
ANOTHER 14 WOUNDED AND UP TO
THREE GUNMEN ON THE LOOSE,
IN MILITARY-STYLE OUTFITS.
MILITARY-STYLE OUTFITS. THAT
WAS THE DEADLY TALLY TODAY
THAT WAS THE DEADLY TALLY TODAY
AFTER THE SHOOTINGS AT A SOCIAL
SERVICES COMPLEX IN SOUTHERN
SERVICES COMPLEX IN
SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA.
CALIFORNIA. IT HAPPENED
IN SAN BERNARDINO, A
IT HAPPENED IN SAN BERNARDINO,
A CITY OF MORE THAN 200,000
CITY OF MORE THAN 200,000
PEOPLE, ABOUT 60 MILES
EAST OF LOS ANGELES.
EAST OF LOS ANGELES. >>
Ifill: IT WAS LATE MORNING
>> Ifill: IT WAS LATE MORNING
WHEN HEAVILY ARMED PICE OLAND
OTHERS RACED TOWARD INLAND
REGIONAL CENTER, MOMENTS AFTER
REGIONAL CENTER, MOMENTS
AFTER THE ALARM SOUNDED.
THE ALARM SOUNDED. >>
APPARENTLY THE SUBJECT IS
>> APPARENTLY THE SUBJECT IS
STILL INSIDE THE BUSINESS:
1365 SOUTH WATERMAN.
1365 SOUTH WATERMAN. ITS
IN BUILDING NUMBER 3--
ITS IN BUILDING NUMBER 3--
POSSIBLE ACTIVE SHOOTER.
MALE IN BLACK CLOTHING.
HE'S STILL FIRING ROUNDS.
HE'S STILL FIRING ROUNDS. >>
Ifill: THE SOCIAL SERVICES
>> Ifill: THE SOCIAL SERVICES
CENTER IS ONE OF 21 THAT'S RUN
BY THE STATE, SERVING PEOPLE
WITH DEVELOPMENTAL DISABILITIES.
THEY WERE EITHER DRESSED OR
EQUIPPED TO INDICATE THEY WERE
PREPARED AND HAVE AUTOMATIC
PREPARED AND HAVE
AUTOMATIC GUNS.
GUNS. THEY WERE ON A MISSION.
THEY WERE ON A MISSION. >>
Ifill: MARCO SAID HIS WIFE
>> Ifill: MARCO SAID HIS WIFE
WAS INSIDE THE BUILDING WHEN THE
WAS INSIDE THE BUILDING
WHEN THE SHOOTING
SHOOTING >> SHE SAID
THE SHOT NEXT-- CAME
>> SHE SAID THE SHOT NEXT-- CAME
IN NEXT TO HER OFFICE, AND I
IN NEXT TO HER OFFICE, AND
I GUESS STARTED SHOOTING.
GUESS STARTED SHOOTING. THEY
LOCKED THEMSELVES IN, IN
THEY LOCKED THEMSELVES
IN, IN HER OFFICE.
HER OFFICE. THEY SEEN
BODIES ON THE FLOOR
THEY SEEN BODIES ON THE FLOOR
AND SHE SAID, RIGHT NOW
AMBULANCE ARE TAKING PEOPLE OUT
AMBULANCE ARE TAKING
PEOPLE OUT IN STRETCHERS.
IN STRETCHERS. OTHERS
WALKED OUT WITH HANDS IN
OTHERS WALKED OUT WITH HANDS IN
THE AIR WHILE THE WOUNDED WERE
WHEELED AWAY ON GURNEYS AND
TRIAGE CENTERS WERE SET UP ON
TRIAGE CENTERS WERE SET
UP ON ROADWAYS NEARBY.
ROADWAYS NEARBY. AS THE
AFTERNOON WORE ON, DOZENS
AS THE AFTERNOON WORE ON, DOZENS
OF POLICE FLOCKED TO NEARBY
STREETS AND JOINED THE MANHUNT.
LATER, PRESIDENT OBAMA TOLD CBS
NEWS THAT THE SAN BERNARDINO
ASSAULT REINFORCES-- YET AGAIN--
THE NEED FOR STEPS TO STOP MASS
THE NEED FOR STEPS TO
STOP MASS SHOOTINGS.
SHOOTINGS. >> WE SHOULD
NEVER THINK THAT
>> WE SHOULD NEVER THINK THAT
WE SHOULD COME TOGETHER IN A
BIPARTISAN BASIS AT EVERY LEVEL
OF GOVERNMENT TO MAKE THESE RARE
OF GOVERNMENT TO MAKE THESE
RARE AS OPPOSED TO NORMAL.
AS OPPOSED TO NORMAL. WE
SHOULD NEVER THINK THAT THIS
WE SHOULD NEVER THINK THAT THIS
IS SOMETHING THAT JUST HAPPENS
IN THE ORDINARY COURSE OF
EVENTS, BECAUSE IT DOESN'T
HAPPEN WITH THE SAME FREQUENCY
IN OTHER COUNTRIES.
IN OTHER COUNTRIES. >>
Ifill: WE GET THE LATEST NOW
>> Ifill: WE GET THE LATEST NOW
FROM RYAN CARTER, CITY EDITOR
WITH "THE SAN BERNARDINO SUN."
RYAN CARTER, WE JUST HEARD THE
LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICIALS SAY
THAT THESE PEOPLE CAME PREPARED,
YET HE DID NOT RULE OUT THE
POSSIBILITY OF TERRORISM.
WHAT DO WE KNOW ABOUT THAT
WHAT DO WE KNOW
ABOUT THAT TONIGHT?
TONIGHT? >> WELL, WE
KNOW THAT THE MAYOR
>> WELL, WE KNOW THAT THE MAYOR
JUST CONCLUDED A NEWS CONFERENCE
A LITTLE WHILE AGO AND WAS VERY
CONSCIOUSLY SAYING WE DON'T KNOW
THAT THIS IS A TERRORIST ATTACK
IN THE SENSE THAT PEOPLE MAY BE
IN THE SENSE THAT
PEOPLE MAY BE THINKING.
THINKING. OBVIOUSLY,
AT LEAST, SOME FORM
OBVIOUSLY, AT LEAST, SOME FORM
OF DOMESTIC TERRORISM, BUT
THAT'S ABOUT ALL WE KNOW AT THIS
THAT'S ABOUT ALL WE
KNOW AT THIS POINT.
POINT. >POINT.
>POINT. >> Ifill: WHEN YOU SAY
>> Ifill: WHEN YOU SAY DOMESTIC
TERRORISM, TO BE CLEAR,
DOMESTIC TERRORISM, TO BE CLEAR,
WE'RE NOT TALKING ABOUT A
DOMESTIC DISPUTE BETWEEN A
HUSBAND AND WIFE, WE'RE TALKING
ABOUT HOMEGROWN TERRORISM?
ABOUT HOMEGROWN
TERRORISM? >> CORRECT.
>> CORRECT. >>
Ifill: TELL ME ABOUT
>> Ifill: TELL ME ABOUT SAN
BERNARDINO AND PARTICULARLY
SAN BERNARDINO AND
PARTICULARLY THIS CENTER.
THIS CENTER. TELL ME
ABOUT THIS AREA OF TOWN
TELL ME ABOUT THIS AREA OF TOWN
AND WHAT IT'S USUALLY LIKE.
>> THE CENTERTSE ILF EMPLOYS
ABOUT CLEESE TO 700 PEOPLE
ACTUALLY AND THAT'S ACCORDING TO
ACTUALLY AND THAT'S ACCORDING
TO THE AGENCY'S Facebook.
THE AGENCY'S Facebook. BUT
WE DON'T KNOW EXACTLY HOW
BUT WE DON'T KNOW EXACTLY HOW
MANY ARE BASED AT THE CENTER.
THEY ARE THE BIGGEST REGIONAL
CENTER IN THE STATE.
CENTER IN THE STATE. AND SAN
BERNARDINO IS THE HUB OF
AND SAN BERNARDINO IS THE HUB OF
SAN BERNARDINO COUNTY WHICH IS
ONE OF THE LARGEST COUNTIES IN
THE STATE AND THE CITY SERVICE A
THE STATE AND THE CITY SERVICE
A LARGE POPULATION AND MANY
LARGE POPULATION AND MANY
UTILIZE THE CENTER IN THEIR
UTILIZE THE CENTER IN
THEIR DAY-TO-DAY LIFE.
DAY-TO-DAY LIFE. >>
Ifill: ABOUT AN HOUR EAST
>> Ifill: ABOUT AN HOUR EAST
OF LOS ANGELES IS THE WAY WE
OF LOS ANGELES IS THE WAY
WE UNDERSTAND IT FOR PEOPLE
UNDERSTAND IT FOR PEOPLE
UNFAMILIAR WITH THE REGION.
THIS UNCERTAINTY WE HEARD FROM
THE LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICIALS
INCLUDING THE F.B.I., THE
UNCERTAINTY YOU'RE SAYING YOU
HEARD FROM THE MAYOR, IS THE
AREA ON LOCKDOWN TONIGHT?
AREA ON LOCKDOWN TONIGHT? WHAT'S
HAPPENING IN THAT AREA AS
WHAT'S HAPPENING IN THAT AREA AS
FAR AS WE KNOW, THE GUNMEN STILL
FAR AS WE KNOW, THE
GUNMEN STILL AT LARGE?
AT LARGE? >> YEAH,
THERE IS A PALPABLE
>> YEAH, THERE IS A PALPABLE
SENSE OF LOCKDOWN JUST IN
GENERAL IN THE DOWNTOWN AREA.
THAT'S WHERE OUR NEWS ROOM THE
THAT'S WHERE OUR NEWS
ROOM THE "SUN" IS BASED.
"SUN" IS BASED. PEOPLE
ARE VERY AWARE OF THIS.
PEOPLE ARE VERY AWARE OF THIS.
WE ARE RIGHT NEXT TO CITY HALL
WE ARE RIGHT NEXT TO CITY
HALL AND WE HAD SEVERAL LAW
AND WE HAD SEVERAL LAW
ENFORCEMENT SUV'S PULL UP JUST
KIND OF PATROLLING THE AREA.
WE SAW SOME BULLET-PROOF,
JACKETED OFFICERS WALKING DOWN
THE STREET NEAR THE BANK ACROSS
THE WAY, AND THEY HAVE THE
SCHOOL DISTRICT ON LOCKDOWN,
EVEN THE LOCAL AMAZON WAREHOUSE
I'VE HEARD REPORTED HAS GONE ON
I'VE HEARD REPORTED
HAS GONE ON LOCKDOWN.
LOCKDOWN. SO THAT IS
DEFINITELY A STRAIN
SO THAT IS DEFINITELY A
STRAIN HERE FOR SURE.
HERE FOR SURE. >> Ifill:
IS THERE ANY WORKING
>> Ifill: IS THERE ANY WORKING
THEORY OR EXPLANATION BEING
GIVEN BY WAY OF LOCAL MEDIA,
SOCIAL MEDIA IN ANY WAY ABOUT
WHAT THE MOTIVE MAY HAVE BEEN
WHAT THE MOTIVE MAY
HAVE BEEN FOR THIS?
FOR THIS? >> NO, I
THINK THAT'S STILL
>> NO, I THINK THAT'S STILL
SOMETHING THAT IS TO BE
SOMETHING THAT IS
TO BE DETERMINED.
DETERMINED. I WOULD
BE A BIT RELUCTANT TO
I WOULD BE A BIT RELUCTANT
TO SPECULATE ON THAT.
SPECULATE ON THAT. YOU
KNOW, THERE HAS BEEN SOME
YOU KNOW, THERE HAS BEEN SOME
SPECULATION ABOUT THE FACT THAT
IT WAS, YOU KNOW, POSSIBLY UP TO
IT WAS, YOU KNOW, POSSIBLY UP
TO THREE PEOPLE, AND IT KIND OF
THREE PEOPLE, AND IT KIND OF
BELIES THE IDEA THAT PERHAPS IT
COULD BE JUST ONE LONE CRAZY
PERSON OUT THERE BUT, IN FACT,
IF IT WAS MORE THAN ONE, IF
THERE WAS SOME ORGANIZATION TO
IT, SO THAT'S WHERE WE'VE LEFT
IT, SO THAT'S WHERE WE'VE
LEFT IT AT THE MOMENT.
IT AT THE MOMENT. >>
Reporter: AND AS FAR AS WE
>> Reporter: AND AS FAR AS WE
KNOW, THESE THREE PEOPLE, IF
THERE ARE THREE, HAS IT BEEN
RULED THEY ARE STILL INSIDE THE
RULED THEY ARE STILL
INSIDE THE FACILITY?
FACILITY? HAS IT BEEN
RULED OUT, THAT IS?
HAS IT BEEN RULED OUT, THAT IS?
>> AS FAR AS I KNOW, THE LAST
>> AS FAR AS I KNOW, THE
LAST I'VE HEARD IS THEY WERE
I'VE HEARD IS THEY WERE
SEEING -- SUSPECTS WERE LAST
POSSIBLY SEEN LEAVING IN A BLACK
SUV, BLACK GMC YUKON AND, SO,
SUV, BLACK GMC YUKON AND,
SO, THAT SEARCH IS ON.
THAT SEARCH IS ON. >>
Ifill: RYAN CARTER AS THE
>> Ifill: RYAN CARTER AS THE
SEARCH CONTINUES DON'T, CITY
EDITOR OF THE SAN BERNARDINO
SUN, THANKS FOR JOINING US.
SUN, THANKS FOR JOINING
US. >> YOU'RE WELCOME.
>> YOU'RE WELCOME. >>
Ifill: IN THE DAY'S OTHER
>> Ifill: IN THE DAY'S OTHER
NEWS, THE FIRST OF SIX BALTIMORE
POLICE OFFICERS, CHARGED IN THE
DEATH OF FREDDIE GRAY, AFTER AN
ARREST THAT SPARKED UNREST LAST
SPRING, GOT HIS INITIAL DAY IN
SPRING, GOT HIS INITIAL
DAY IN COURT TODAY.
COURT TODAY. GRAY DIED
OF A SEVERE SPINAL
GRAY DIED OF A SEVERE SPINAL
INJURY IN POLICE CUSTODY.
AMONG OTHER THINGS, OFFICER
WILLIAM PORTER IS CHARGED WITH
INVOLUNTARY MANSLAUGHTER.
PROSECUTORS SAID TODAY THAT
PORTER DID NOTHING TO HELP GRAY
PORTER DID NOTHING TO HELP
GRAY OR PREVENT HIS INJURIES.
OR PREVENT HIS INJURIES. DEFENSE
ATTORNEYS DISPUTED THAT.
DEFENSE ATTORNEYS DISPUTED THAT.
THE UNITED NATIONS' NUCLEAR
AGENCY HAS CONCLUDED THAT IRAN
DID WORK ON NUCLEAR WEAPONS
PRIOR TO 2009, DESPITE ITS
PRIOR TO 2009,
DESPITE ITS DENIALS.
DENIALS. THE INTERNATIONAL
ATOMIC ENERGY
THE INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY
AGENCY REPORTED TODAY THAT THE
AGENCY REPORTED TODAY THAT
THE IRANIANS DID THEIR MOST
IRANIANS DID THEIR MOST
COORDINATED WORK ON DEVELOPING
NUCLEAR ARMS BEFORE 2003.
NUCLEAR ARMS BEFORE 2003. IT
ALSO SAID THE ACTIVITIES WERE
IT ALSO SAID THE ACTIVITIES WERE
LIMITED TO PLANNING AND TESTING
LIMITED TO PLANNING AND
TESTING BASIC COMPONENTS.
BASIC COMPONENTS. NATO
FORMALLY INVITED MONTENEGRO
NATO FORMALLY INVITED MONTENEGRO
TODAY TO JOIN THE ALLIANCE, AND
RUSSIA IMMEDIATELY THREATENED
RUSSIA IMMEDIATELY
THREATENED RETALIATION.
RETALIATION. THE SMALL
BALKANS COUNTRY HAS
THE SMALL BALKANS COUNTRY HAS
ONLY 2,000 SOLDIERS, BUT IT'S
STRATEGICALLY LOCATED ON THE
ADRIATIC SEA, WITH DEEP-WATER
ADRIATIC SEA, WITH
DEEP-WATER NAVAL BASES.
NAVAL BASES. IN BRUSSELS,
THE NATO SECRETARY-
IN BRUSSELS, THE NATO SECRETARY-
GENERAL SAID THE DECISION WAS
NOT AIMED AT RUSSIA, IN SPITE OF
ONGOING TENSIONS WITH MOSCOW.
>> IT IS A DECISION FOR OUR
>> IT IS A DECISION
FOR OUR SECURITY.
SECURITY. FOR THE
SECURITY OF THE 28
FOR THE SECURITY OF THE 28
ALLIES, AND FOR THE SECURITY OF
ALLIES, AND FOR THE
SECURITY OF MONTENEGRO.
MONTENEGRO. EVERY NATION
HAS ITS SOVEREIGN
EVERY NATION HAS ITS SOVEREIGN
RIGHT TO DECIDE ITS OWN PATH
INCLUDING WHAT KIND OF SECURITY
ARRANGEMENTS IT WANTS TO
ARRANGEMENTS IT WANTS
TO BE PART OF.
BE PART OF. >> Ifill:
MONTENEGRO'S ADMISSION
>> Ifill: MONTENEGRO'S ADMISSION
INTO NATO WILL NOT BECOME
OFFICIAL UNTIL ALL 28 MEMBERS OF
OFFICIAL UNTIL ALL 28 MEMBERS
OF THE ALLIANCE RATIFY THE
THE ALLIANCE RATIFY
THE DECISION.
DECISION. CATASTROPHIC
FLOODING ACROSS
CATASTROPHIC FLOODING ACROSS
SOUTHERN INDIA GREW EVEN WORSE
TODAY, AFTER THE HEAVIEST
RAINFALL IN MORE THAN A HUNDRED
RAINFALL IN MORE THAN
A HUNDRED YEARS.
YEARS. THE COUNTRY'S
FOURTH LARGEST
THE COUNTRY'S FOURTH LARGEST
CITY, AND INDUSTRIAL HUB,
CHENNAI WAS ALL BUT PARALYZED,
WITH AUTO FACTORIES CLOSED, AND
AIRPORT OPERATIONS DISRUPTED.
MONSOON DOWNPOURS DUMPED 15
INCHES OF RAIN OVER A 24-HOUR
PERIOD, FLOODING THOUSANDS OF
PERIOD, FLOODING
THOUSANDS OF HOMES.
HOMES. STRANDED
PEOPLE HAD TO WADED
STRANDED PEOPLE HAD TO WADED
THROUGH CHEST-DEEP WATERS IN
THROUGH CHEST-DEEP
WATERS IN MANY PLACES.
MANY PLACES. BACK IN
THIS COUNTRY, THE WHITE
BACK IN THIS COUNTRY, THE WHITE
HOUSE WELCOMED CONGRESSIONAL
AGREEMENT ON A FIVE-YEAR FUNDING
BILL FOR HIGHWAYS AND MASS
BILL FOR HIGHWAYS
AND MASS TRANSIT.
TRANSIT. THE $280
BILLION MEASURE WOULD
THE $280 BILLION MEASURE WOULD
END A LONG CYCLE OF SHORT-TERM
END A LONG CYCLE OF
SHORT-TERM PATCHES.
PATCHES. IT RELIES
PARTLY ON OIL SALES
IT RELIES PARTLY ON OIL SALES
FROM THE STRATEGIC PETROLEUM
RESERVE, BUT DOES NOT INCREASE
RESERVE, BUT DOES NOT
INCREASE THE FEDERAL GAS TAX.
THE FEDERAL GAS TAX. FINAL
PASSAGE IS EXPECTED BY
FINAL PASSAGE IS
EXPECTED BY FRIDAY.
FRIDAY. THE HOUSE
OF REPRESENTATIVES
THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
MOVED AHEAD LATE TODAY ON A
LONG-AWAITED REWRITE OF THE
"NO CHILD LEFT BEHIND"
EDUCATION LAW, FROM 2002.
THE COMPROMISE BILL STILL
MANDATES ANNUAL TESTING
MANDATES ANNUAL TESTING FOR
READING AND MATH IN GRADES
FOR READING AND MATH IN GRADES
THREE THROUGH EIGHT, AND IN HIGH
THREE THROUGH EIGHT,
AND IN HIGH SCHOOL.
SCHOOL. BUT IT ALSO
LETS THE STATES,
BUT IT ALSO LETS THE STATES,
RATHER THAN WASHINGTON, DECIDE
OVER HOW TO USE TEST SCORES TO
ASSESS TEACHERS AND SCHOOLS.
ASSESS TEACHERS AND SCHOOLS. >>
THE ONE-SIZE-FITS-ALL FORMULA
>> THE ONE-SIZE-FITS-ALL FORMULA
OF ADEQUATE YEARLY PROGRESS IS
OF ADEQUATE YEARLY PROGRESS
IS RIGHTFULLY GONE.
RIGHTFULLY GONE. THE
ACCOUNTABILITY PROVISIONS IN
THE ACCOUNTABILITY PROVISIONS IN
THE EVERY STUDENT SUCCEEDS ACT
CREATE A FRAMEWORK FOR STATES AS
THEY CREATE THEIR OWN MEANINGFUL
ACCOUNTABILITY PLANS.
ACCOUNTABILITY PLANS. THIS
MEANS THAT STATES CAN BE
THIS MEANS THAT STATES CAN BE
FLEXIBLE AND INNOVATIVE TO
CREATE SPECIFIC POLICIES THAT
CREATE SPECIFIC POLICIES
THAT WORK FOR THEM.
WORK FOR THEM. >> Ifill:
THE SENATE IS EXPECTED
>> Ifill: THE SENATE IS EXPECTED
TO VOTE ON THE BILL NEXT WEEK.
THE GOVERNMENT REPORTS U.S.
HEALTH CARE SPENDING SURGED LAST
YEAR BY THE MOST SINCE PRESIDENT
YEAR BY THE MOST SINCE
PRESIDENT OBAMA TOOK OFFICE.
OBAMA TOOK OFFICE. THE
CENTERS FOR MEDICARE AND
THE CENTERS FOR MEDICARE AND
MEDICAID SAYS SPENDING WAS UP
MORE THAN 5% FROM 2013 TO $3
MORE THAN 5% FROM
2013 TO $3 TRILLION.
TRILLION. EXPANDED
COVERAGE UNDER
EXPANDED COVERAGE UNDER
MEDICAID, AS A RESULT OF THE
AFFORDABLE CARE ACT, REACHED
NEARLY $500 BILLION.
NEARLY $500 BILLION. ON WALL
STREET, STOCKS SAGGED AS
ON WALL STREET, STOCKS SAGGED AS
OIL FELL BELOW $40 A BARREL AND
FEDERAL RESVE CERHAIR JANET
YELLEN SAID AN INTEREST RATE
HIKE IS STILL ON TRACK FOR LATER
HIKE IS STILL ON TRACK
FOR LATER THIS MONTH.
THIS MONTH. THE DOW JONES
INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
LOST NEARLY 160 POINTS TO CLOSE
LOST NEARLY 160 POINTS
TO CLOSE BELOW 17,730.
BELOW 17,730. THE
NASDAQ FELL 33 POINTS.
THE NASDAQ FELL 33 POINTS.
AND THE S&P 500 DROPPED 23.
FORMER NATIONAL SECURITY ADVISER
SANDY BERGER DIED TODAY, AFTER A
SANDY BERGER DIED TODAY, AFTER
A STRUGGLE WITH CANCER.
STRUGGLE WITH CANCER. HE
HELPED CRAFT PRESIDENT
HE HELPED CRAFT PRESIDENT
CLINTON'S FOREIGN POLICY FROM
1997 TO 2001, INCLUDING BOMBING
CAMPAIGNS IN KOSOVO AND IRAQ,
AND THE RESPONSE TO AL-QAIDA'S
BOMBING OF U.S. EMBASSIES IN
BOMBING OF U.S. EMBASSIES
IN EAST AFRICA.
EAST AFRICA. SANDY
BERGER WAS 70 YEARS OLD.
SANDY BERGER WAS 70 YEARS OLD.
AND THE WHITE HOUSE UNVEILED ITS
ANNUAL HOLIDAY MAKEOVER TODAY.
THE FEATURED ATTRACTION IS THE
"BLUE ROOM TREE," MORE THAN 18
"BLUE ROOM TREE," MORE
THAN 18 FEET TALL.
FEET TALL. IT'S COVERED
WITH MESSAGES FROM
IT'S COVERED WITH MESSAGES FROM
FAMILIES OF MEMBERS OF THE ARMED
FAMILIES OF MEMBERS
OF THE ARMED FORCES.
FORCES. THERE'S ALSO A 500-POUND
THERE'S ALSO A 500-POUND
GINGERBREAD WHITE HOUSE,
COVERED IN CHOCOLATE.
COVERED IN CHOCOLATE. AND
OUTSIDE, 56 SNOWMEN AND
AND OUTSIDE, 56 SNOWMEN AND
WOMEN, ONE FOR EACH STATE AND
WOMEN, ONE FOR EACH
STATE AND TERRITORY.
TERRITORY. STILL TO
COME ON THE NEWSHOUR:
STILL TO COME ON THE NEWSHOUR:
BRITAIN CONSIDERS MORE MILITARY
ACTION AGAINST THE ISLAMIC
ACTION AGAINST THE
ISLAMIC STATE.
STATE. CORRUPTION IN NIGERIA.
CORRUPTION IN NIGERIA.
FROM THE STREETS TO THE
FROM THE STREETS
TO THE GOVERNMENT.
GOVERNMENT. A TREND OF
BIG GIVING IN SILICON
A TREND OF BIG GIVING
IN SILICON VALLEY.
VALLEY. AND MUCH MORE.
THE CAMPAIGN AGAINST ISLAMIC
STATE FORCES ADVANCED ON
SEVERAL FRONTS TODAY.
BRITAIN'S HOUSE OF COMMONS
APPROVED AN EXPANDED AIR STRIKE
CAMPAIGN IN SYRIA, AND THE FIGHT
FOR A KEY PROVINCIAL CAPITAL
FOR A KEY PROVINCIAL
CAPITAL HEATED UP IN IRAQ.
HEATED UP IN IRAQ. (GUNFIRE)
(GUNFIRE) STREET BATTLES
RAGED IN RAMADI
STREET BATTLES RAGED IN RAMADI
AS GOVERNMENT TROOPS BACKED BY
U.S. AIRSTRIKES MOVE CLOSER TO
U.S. AIRSTRIKES MOVE CLOSER
TO END A DRAWN-OUT SIEGE.
END A DRAWN-OUT SIEGE. BUT
MANY IRAQIS LED BY THE PRIME
BUT MANY IRAQIS LED BY THE PRIME
MINISTER ABADI DID NOT APPEAR TO
MINISTER ABADI DID NOT APPEAR
TO WELCOME THES IN THAT U.S. IS
WELCOME THES IN THAT U.S. IS
SENDING ADDITIONAL SPECIAL OPS
FORCES TO ROOT OUT I.S.I.S.
FORCES TO ROOT OUT
I.S.I.S. STRONGHOLDS.
STRONGHOLDS. >> WE
DO NOT NEED FOREIGN
>> WE DO NOT NEED FOREIGN
FORCES, WHETHER AMERICAN,
DINISH, ITALIAN OR FRENCH ONES.
THE IRAQI PEOPLE AREAPAB CLE.
U.S. FORCES HAVE NO CREDIBILITY
AND NO GOOD INTENTIONS.
AND NO GOOD INTENTIONS. I
CONSIDER THIS A NEW INVASION.
I CONSIDER THIS A NEW INVASION.
>> Ifill: AT N.A.T.O.
HEADQUARTERS IN BRUSSELS,
SECRETARY KERRY DENIED IRAQI
LEADERS WERE NOT BRIEFED ABOUT
THE NEW FORCE IN ADVANCE.
>> WE WILL CONTINUE TO WORK
VERY, VERY CLOSELY WITH OUR
IRAQI PARTNERS ON EXACTLY WHO
WILL BE DEPLOYED, WHERE THEY
WILL BE DEPLOYED, WHAT KIND OF
MISSIONS PEOPLE WOULD UNDERTAKE,
HOW THEY'D SUPPORT IRAQI EFFORTS
HOW THEY'D SUPPORT IRAQI
EFFORTS TO DESTROY I.S.I.L.
TO DESTROY I.S.I.L. >>
Ifill: MONDAY, BRITISH
>> Ifill: MONDAY, BRITISH
PRIME MINISTER DAVID CAMERON
MADE A PLAN TO EXPAND THE
BRITISH AIR CAMPAIGN IN IRAQ TO
BRITISH AIR CAMPAIGN
IN IRAQ TO SYRIA.
SYRIA. >> THE QUESTION
IS DO WE WORK
>> THE QUESTION IS DO WE WORK
WITH OUR ALLIES TO DEGRADE AND
DESTROY THIS THREAT AND DO WE GO
AFTER THESE TERRORISTS IN THEIR
HEARTLANDS FROM WHERE THEY ARE
PLOTTING TO KILL BRITISH PEOPLE
OR DO WE SIT BACK AND WAIT TORE
OR DO WE SIT BACK AND WAIT
TORE THEM TO ATTACK US?
THEM TO ATTACK US? >>
Ifill: BUT CAMERON FACED
>> Ifill: BUT CAMERON FACED
RILED-UP OPPONENTS TO HIS PLAN
AFTER REPORTS SAID HE CALLED
THEM A BUNCH OF TEMPT
THEM A BUNCH OF
TEMPT SYMPATHIZERS.
SYMPATHIZERS. >> AN
AMENDMENT WAS SIGNED BY
>> AN AMENDMENT WAS SIGNED BY
110 MEMBERS OF THIS HOUSE FROM
SIX DIFFERENT POLITICAL PARTIES.
I'VE EXAMINED THAT LIST VERY
I'VE EXAMINED THAT
LIST VERY CAREFULLY.
CAREFULLY. I CANNOT
IDENTIFY A SINGLE
I CANNOT IDENTIFY A SINGLE
TERRORIST SYMPATHIZER AMONG
TERRORIST SYMPATHIZER
AMONG THEM.
THEM. THERE WILAPOLOGIZE
FOR HIS DEEPY
THERE WILAPOLOGIZE FOR HIS
DEEPY INSULTING REMARKS.
INSULTING REMARKS. >> I'LL
BE VERY CLEAR, THIS IS
>> I'LL BE VERY CLEAR, THIS IS
ABOUT HOW WE FIGHT TERRORISM AND
THERE IS HONOR IN ANY VOTE THE
THERE IS HONOR IN ANY VOTE
THE HONORABLE MEMBERS MAKE.
HONORABLE MEMBERS MAKE. >>
Ifill: IN TEND THE HOUSE OF
>> Ifill: IN TEND THE HOUSE OF
COMMONS BACKED THE CONSERVATIVE
GOVERNMENT PLAN TO BEGIN
AIRSTRIKES INSIDE SIR. I CAN'T
RUSSIA RELEASED SATELLITE
IMAGERY PURPORTEDLY SHOWING
TRUCKS DELIVERING ISLAMIC STATE
OIL IN TURKEY AND TURKISH
LEADERS PROFITING FROM THE
LEADERS PROFITING FROM
THE ILLICIT TRADE.
ILLICIT TRADE. PRESIDENT
ERDOGAN DISMISSED THE
PRESIDENT ERDOGAN DISMISSED
THE CLAIMS AS SLANDER.
CLAIMS AS SLANDER. LATER I.
>> Ifill: LATER IN THE DAY, AN
ISLAMIC STATE VIDEO APPEARED TO
SHOW THE BEHEADING OF ANOTHER
SHOW THE BEHEADING
OF ANOTHER HOSTAGE.
HOSTAGE. THE MILITANTS
SAID HE HAD SPIED
THE MILITANTS SAID HE HAD SPIED
FOR RUSSIA IN SYRIA AND IRAQ.
WE RETURN AGAIN TO OUR
CONTINUING SERIES THIS WEEK,
"NIGERIA: PAIN AND PROMISE."
TONIGHT, SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT
NICK SCHIFRIN LOOKS AT THE
CORRUPTION IN THE OIL-RICH
NATION, FROM THE HIGHEST LEVELS
OF NIGERIA'S GOVERNMENT, DOWN
TO THE POLICE ON THE STREETS.
>> Reporter: ON THE STREETS OF
LAGOS THERE'S A SAYING: EVERY
LAGOS THERE'S A SAYING:
EVERY DAY IS FOR THE THIEF.
DAY IS FOR THE THIEF. GODWIN
EKPO'S THIEF WAS SUPPOSED
GODWIN EKPO'S THIEF WAS
SUPPOSED TO BE HIS PROTECTOR.
TO BE HIS PROTECTOR. DO
THE POLICE OFTEN ASK FOR
DO THE POLICE OFTEN
ASK FOR MONEY?
>> Reporter: GODWIN DROVE
A TAXI CALLED A TRICYCLE.
CALLED A TRICYCLE. LAST
MONTH, A POLICE OFFICER
LAST MONTH, A POLICE OFFICER
STOPPED HIM TO DEMAND A BRIBE.
>> Reporter: THAT'S ABOUT $10-
WHAT GODWIN WOULD HAVE MADE
WORKING AS A TAXI DRIVER THAT
WORKING AS A TAXI
DRIVER THAT MORNING.
>> Reporter: HE WAS WITH HIS
WIFE AND THEIR THREE CHILDREN.
WIFE AND THEIR THREE
CHILDREN. HE REFUSED TO PAY.
>> Reporter: THE OFFICER HAD
SHOT HIM, FOR REFUSING TO PAY
SHOT HIM, FOR
REFUSING TO PAY $10.
>> THE PERCEPTION HAS BEEN
THAT THE POLICE IS CORRUPT.
THE POLICE IS CORRUPT. YOU
CAN ABUSE THE RIGHTS OF THE
YOU CAN ABUSE THE RIGHTS
OF THE AVERAGE CITIZEN.
AVERAGE CITIZEN. >>
Reporter: KEMI OKENYODO
>> Reporter: KEMI OKENYODO
STUDIES POLICE CORRUPTION.
SHE SAYS LOW SALARIES AND A
CUURE LTOF IMPUNITY HAS LED TO
THIS: VIDEOS ON LOCAL MEDIA SHOW
POLICE OFFICERS INSIDE PEOPLE'S
POLICE OFFICERS INSIDE
PEOPLE'S CARS DEMANDING MONEY.
CARS DEMANDING MONEY. THE
OFFICER EXHIBITS NO SHAME.
THE OFFICER EXHIBITS NO SHAME.
HIS VICTIMS REVEAL NO SURPRISE.
>> Reporter: IN NIGERIA, THIS IS
>> Reporter: IN NIGERIA,
THIS IS DAILY LIFE.
DAILY LIFE. FOR SOME,
WHEN THE PERSON ASKING
FOR SOME, WHEN THE PERSON ASKING
FOR MONEY HAS A CLUB OR A GUN,
BRIBES ARE MORE LIKE RANSOMS.
>> THE LOW LEVEL CORRUPTION
>> THE LOW LEVEL
CORRUPTION MAKES IT WORSE.
MAKES IT WORSE. WHEN YOU
COME INTO CONTACT WITH
WHEN YOU COME INTO CONTACT WITH
POLICE OFFICERS, WHEN YOU GO TO
POLICE STATIONS, WHEN YOU GO AND
REPORT A CASE AND THE CASE CAN
EASILY BE TURNED AGAINST THE
PERSON THAT HAS COME TO REPORT.
>> Reporter: IN NIGERIA THE
>> Reporter: IN NIGERIA
THE CORRUPTION IS, SADLY,
CORRUPTION IS,
SADLY, EVERYWHERE.
EVERYWHERE. SHOPKEEPERS
HERE SAY POLICEPRESE
SHOPKEEPERS HERE SAY
POLICEPRESE MEDICINE.
MEDICINE. I'VE BEEN
ASKED FOR BRIBES BY
I'VE BEEN ASKED FOR BRIBES BY
POLICE OFFICERS, BY SOLDIERS, BY
AIRPORT SECURITY OFFICERS BEHIND
AIRPORT SECURITY OFFICERS
BEHIND THE X-RAY MACHINE.
THE X-RAY MACHINE. IN
NIGERIA, THCANCER OF
IN NIGERIA, THCANCER OF
CORRUPTION HAS BEEN SPREADING
CORRUPTION HAS BEEN
SPREADING FOR YEARS.
FOR YEARS. OFTEN IT
STARTS IN CHILDHOOD.
OFTEN IT STARTS IN CHILDHOOD.
THE KULETU SCHOOL IN BAUCHI
STATE LOOKS LIKE MANY RURAL
STATE LOOKS LIKE MANY
RURAL NIGERIAN SCHOOLS.
NIGERIAN SCHOOLS. THIS IS
THE 2nd GRADE CLASSROOM.
THIS IS THE 2nd GRADE
CLASSROOM. NO DESKS.
NO DESKS. NO CHAIRS.
NO CHAIRS. NO PENCILS.
NO PENCILS. NO BOOKS.
>> Reporter: PRINCIPAL MUSA
MUHAMMAD POINTS OUT, THIS IS
MOSTLY NOT ABOUT POVERTY.
THE 2014 FEDERAL EDUCATION
BUDGET WAS $2.4 BILLION.
MUHAMMAD ACCUSES THE GOVERNMENT
OF POCKETING MONEY THAT'S
SUPPOSED TO EDUCATE CHILDREN.
>> Reporter: HE'S BEEN ASKING
THE LOCAL GOVERNMENT TO FIX THIS
THE LOCAL GOVERNMENT
TO FIX THIS CLASSROOM.
CLASSROOM. THE WIND
BLEW THE ROOF OFF-- SIX
THE WIND BLEW THE ROOF
OFF-- SIX YEARS AGO.
YEARS AGO. THE CONTRACTOR
USED THIS WOOD
THE CONTRACTOR USED THIS WOOD
INSTEAD OF THE WOOD THEY WERE
INSTEAD OF THE WOOD THEY
WERE SUPPOSED TO USE?
SUPPOSED TO USE? >> Reporter:
AND THE THINNESS OF
>> Reporter: AND THE THINNESS OF
THIS WOOD, THIS IS WHY THE ROOF
THIS WOOD, THIS IS WHY
THE ROOF CAME DOWN?
CAME DOWN? >> Reporter:
THEY'RE KEEPING A
>> Reporter: THEY'RE KEEPING A
PART OF THE MONEY AND PUTTING IT
PART OF THE MONEY AND PUTTING
IT IN THEIR POCKETS.
IN THEIR POCKETS. >> Reporter:
IS THAT BECAUSEHE T
>> Reporter: IS THAT BECAUSEHE
T GOVERNMENT IS IN ON IT?
GOVERNMENT IS IN ON IT? >>
Reporter: WHY IS THERE NOT
>> Reporter: WHY IS THERE NOT
MONEY COMING TO THESE SCHOOLS?
>> Reporter: YIBIS SYLVESTER IS
A LOCAL HUMAN RIGHTS CAMPAIGNER.
HE ACCUSES GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS
HE ACCUSES GOVERNMENT
OFFICIALS OF THEFT.
>> Reporter: YOU MIGHT THINK A
MAN WHO IS FOLLOWED BY PEOPLE
WHO CALL HIM KING, WHO TRAVELS
WITH POLICE ESCORT, AND WHO
RIDES IN THE BACK OF A ROLLS
ROYCE LIMO IS A MEMBER OF
NIGERIA'S CORRUPT CLASS.
NIGERIA'S CORRUPT CLASS. BUT
MUHAMMADU SANUSI IS ONE OF
BUT MUHAMMADU SANUSI IS ONE
OF NIGERIA'S MOST PROGRESSIVE
NIGERIA'S MOST
PROGRESSIVE VOICES.
VOICES. >> IN
NIGERIA, THERE'S NO
>> IN NIGERIA, THERE'S NO
ACCOUNTABILITY AT ALL.
ACCOUNTABILITY AT ALL. AND
THAT'S WHY I THINK NIGERIAN
AND THAT'S WHY I THINK NIGERIAN
CORRUPTION IS WORSE THAN IN MANY
PARTS OF THE WORLD, BECAUSE IT'S
THE WORST TYPE OF CORRUPTION.
THE WORST TYPE OF
CORRUPTION. IT'S STEALING.
IT'S STEALING. >> Reporter:
SANUSI IS THE EMIR
>> Reporter: SANUSI IS THE
EMIR OF KANO, NIGERIA'S SECOND
OF KANO, NIGERIA'S SECOND
HIGHEST ISLAMIC AUTHORITY.
HIGHEST ISLAMIC AUTHORITY. BUT
HE'S MOST FAMOUS FOR WHAT HE
BUT HE'S MOST FAMOUS FOR
WHAT HE DID WEARING A SUIT.
DID WEARING A SUIT. >>
Reporter: THAT'S A TED-X
>> Reporter: THAT'S A TED-X
CONFERENCE IN 2013, WHEN SANUSI
WAS NIGERIA'S CENTRAL BANK
WAS NIGERIA'S CENTRAL
BANK GOVERNOR.
GOVERNOR. HE ACCUSED
FORMER PRESIDENT
HE ACCUSED FORMER PRESIDENT
GOODLUCK JONATHAN, FORMER
PETROLEUM MINISTER DEIZANI
ALLISON MADEUKE, AND THE FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT OF LOOTING $20
BILLION OF THE COUNTRY'S OIL
BILLION OF THE
COUNTRY'S OIL WEALTH.
WEALTH. IN RESPONSE
TO HIS WHISTLE-
IN RESPONSE TO HIS WHISTLE-
BLOWING, HE WAS FIRED.
BLOWING, HE WAS FIRED. >>
FRANKLY, I THINK A BILLION
>> FRANKLY, I THINK A BILLION
DOLLARS A MONTH UNDER JONATHAN
WAS ABOUT WHAT WE WERE LOSING.
>> Reporter: NIGERIA IS AFRICA'S
RICHEST COUNTRY BECAUSE OF OIL.
BUT THE OIL DEALS ARE AS OPAQUE
AS THE OIL BEING EXPORTED.
AS THE OIL BEING EXPORTED. U.S.
AND BRITISH OFFICIALS TOLD
U.S. AND BRITISH OFFICIALS TOLD
US ALLISON-MADUEKE MIGHT HAVE
PERSONALLY OVERSEEN THE STEALING
PERSONALLY OVERSEEN THE
STEALING OF $6 BILLION.
OF $6 BILLION. THE MOST
COMMON METHOD: AWARDING
THE MOST COMMON METHOD: AWARDING
OIL CONTRACTS TO COMPANIES OWNED
OIL CONTRACTS TO COMPANIES
OWNED BY FRIENDS.
BY FRIENDS. >> BASICALLY,
ALL IT DOES IS
>> BASICALLY, ALL IT DOES IS
ALLOWS A GROUP OF PEOPLE WHO
THEMSELVES DON'T HAVE ANY KIND
OF OPERATING BACKGROUND, TO PAY
$50 MILLION, OKAY, FOR ACCESS TO
THE CRUDE OIL IN BLOCKS VALUED
THE CRUDE OIL IN BLOCKS
VALUED AT OVER $2 BILLION.
AT OVER $2 BILLION. AND
THEY JUST TAKE THE CRUDE,
AND THEY JUST TAKE THE CRUDE,
SHIP IT OUT, AND DON'T RETURN
SHIP IT OUT, AND DON'T
RETURN THE MONEY.
THE MONEY. THERE IS
NO TRACE OF WHERE THE
THERE IS NO TRACE OF WHERE
THE MONEY HAS GONE.
MONEY HAS GONE. >> Reporter:
THE SECOND WAY TIL.
>> Reporter: THE SECOND WAY TIL.
WE OBTAINED THIS DOCUMENT THAT
SHOWS, IN FEBRUARY 2014, OF 32
SHIPS CARRYING NIGERIAN OIL, UP
TO 60% DIDN'T DELIVER THE SAME
AMOUNT OF OIL THEY PICKED UP.
>> SOMEONE GETS A CONTRACT TO
LIFT CRUDE FROM THE TERMINALS TO
THE REFINERIES, AND IN BETWEEN
THAT CRUDE IS STOLEN.
STOLEN ON THE HIGH SEAS.
STOLEN ON THE HIGH SEAS. >>
Reporter: ALLISON-MADUEKE'S
>> Reporter: ALLISON-MADUEKE'S
LAWYER DECLINED TO SPEAK TO PBS
LAWYER DECLINED TO
SPEAK TO PBS NEWSHOUR.
NEWSHOUR. BUT IN
LONDON, WHERE SHE IS
BUT IN LONDON, WHERE SHE
IS RECOVERING FROM CANCER
RECOVERING FROM CANCER
TREATMENT, SHE TOLD A NIGERIAN
JOURNALIST, "HOW CAN $20 BILLION
JOURNALIST, "HOW CAN
$20 BILLION DISAPPEAR?
DISAPPEAR? I CHALLENGE
ANYONE TO COME
I CHALLENGE ANYONE TO COME
FORWARD WITH FACTS SHOWING THAT
I STOLE GOVERNMENT OR PUBLIC
I STOLE GOVERNMENT
OR PUBLIC MONEY.
MONEY. I'VE NEVER
STOLEN NIGERIA'S
I'VE NEVER STOLEN
NIGERIA'S MONEY."
MONEY." >> IF SHE
GOES TO COURT AND IF
>> IF SHE GOES TO COURT AND IF
SHE'S JAILED, FOR EXAMPLE, OR IF
OTHER PEOPLE ARE PICKED UP AND
JAILED, IT SENDS A SIGNAL, I
THINK, THAT THERE IS A DAY OF
THINK, THAT THERE IS
A DAY OF RECKONING.
RECKONING. >> Reporter:
PRESIDENT MUHAMMADU
>> Reporter: PRESIDENT MUHAMMADU
BUHARI HAS PROMISED THAT DAY OF
BUHARI HAS PROMISED
THAT DAY OF RECKONING.
RECKONING. HE WAS ELECTED
ON A PLATFORM OF
HE WAS ELECTED ON A PLATFORM
OF FIGHTING CORRUPTION.
FIGHTING CORRUPTION.
PRESIDENT BUHARI'S CAMPAIGN
AGAINST HIGH-LEVEL CORRUPTION
BEGAN ON THIS STREET AND THIS
BEGAN ON THIS STREET
AND THIS HOUSE.
HOUSE. OR MORE LIKE,
THIS MANSION.
OR MORE LIKE, THIS MANSION.
THIS IS WHERE THE FORMER
NATIONAL SECUTY ARIDVISOR LIVES,
AND ARMED SOLDIERS ARRIVED HERE
CARS, SEVEN ASSAULT RIFLES, AND
ARRESTED THE FORMER NATIONAL
SECURITY ADVISOR FOR HAVING
SECURITY ADVISOR
FOR HAVING THEM.
THEM. SAMBO DASUKI
HAS BEEN ACCUSED OF
SAMBO DASUKI HAS BEEN ACCUSED OF
ALLEGEDLY STEALING BILLIONS OF
DOLLARS FROM THE MILITARY, WHEN
HE WAS SUPPOSED TO BE SUPPLYING
HE WAS SUPPOSED TO BE
SUPPLYING THEM WITH WEAPONS.
THEM WITH WEAPONS. >>
Reporter: THIS MAN IS AN
>> Reporter: THIS MAN IS AN
ACTIVE DUTY NIGERIAN SOLDIER.
HE WAS ON THE FRONT LINES
AGAINST BOKO HARAM WHEN HE WAS
AGAINST BOKO HARAM WHEN HE
WAS SHOT THROUGH THE KNEE.
SHOT THROUGH THE KNEE. >>
Reporter: HE SAYS HE AND HIS
>> Reporter: HE SAYS HE AND HIS
MEN WERE SO SHORT OF RESOURCES,
THEIR WEAPONS DIDN'T HAVE
THEIR WEAPONS DIDN'T
HAVE BULLETS.
BULLETS. THEIR TRUCKS
DIDN'T HAVE GAS.
THEIR TRUCKS DIDN'T HAVE GAS.
>> Reporter: YOU HAD TO DONATE
MONEY EVEN JUST TO FILL THE
MONEY EVEN JUST TO FILL
THE TRUCK WITH FUEL.
TRUCK WITH FUEL. >>
Reporter: IT APPEARS THE
>> Reporter: IT APPEARS THE
NATIONAL SECURITY ADVISOR HAD
NATIONAL SECURITY
ADVISOR HAD THE MONEY.
THE MONEY. THIS DOCUMENT
OBTAINED BY PBS
THIS DOCUMENT OBTAINED BY PBS
NEWSHOUR IS A REQUEST BY
DASUKI'S OFFICE FOR $47 MILLION.
A NIGERIAN OFFICIAL SAYS THE
MONEY LEFT THE CENTRAL BANK IN
CASH, AT NIGHT, IN ARMORED VANS.
A SECOND DOCUMENT SHOWS DEIZANI
ALLISON-MADUEKE'S NAME ON THE
ALLISON-MADUEKE'S
NAME ON THE BOTTOM.
BOTTOM. THIS TRANSFER
WAS FOR $289
THIS TRANSFER WAS FOR $289
MILLION TO THE NATIONAL
INTELLIGENCE AGENCY.
INTELLIGENCE AGENCY. THE
PROBLEM WITH THAT: THE
THE PROBLEM WITH THAT: THE
OFFICIAL NATIONAL INTELLIGENCE
AGENCY BUDGET WAS ONLY $160
AGENCY BUDGET WAS
ONLY $160 MILLION.
MILLION. >> Reporter:
PROFESSOR BOLAJI
>> Reporter: PROFESSOR BOLAJI
OWASANOYE ADVISES BUHARI ON HOW
TO COMBAT HIGH-LEVEL CORRUPTION.
>> BECAUSE MONEY THAT WAS BEING
APPROPRIATED WAS NOT BEING USED
APPROPRIATED WAS NOT
BEING USED FOR PURPOSE.
FOR PURPOSE. THAT'S WHY
I SAID, CORRUPTION
THAT'S WHY I SAID, CORRUPTION
WEAKENED AND ESCALATED OUR
WEAKENED AND ESCALATED
OUR INSECURITY.
INSECURITY. BECAUSE
MONEY THAT WAS
BECAUSE MONEY THAT WAS
APPROPRIATED FOR WEAPONS, FOR
WELFARE, IT WASN'T GETTING TO
WELFARE, IT WASN'T
GETTING TO BASE.
BASE. >> Reporter:
DASUKI'S LAWYER,
>> Reporter: DASUKI'S LAWYER,
RAJI AHMED, DECLINED TO BE
RAJI AHMED, DECLINED TO
BE INTERVIEWED ON CAMERA.
INTERVIEWED ON CAMERA.
BUT HE TOLD ME, "ALL THE
PROCUREMENTS WERE MADE AT THE
REQUEST OF THE MILITARY.
REQUEST OF THE MILITARY. THEY
IDENTIFIED THE CONTRACTS OR
THEY IDENTIFIED THE CONTRACTS
OR THE SUPPLIERS, AND [DASUKI]
THE SUPPLIERS, AND [DASUKI]
MERELY SOUGHT THE APPROVAL OF
MERELY SOUGHT THE APPROVAL
OF THE PRESIDENT."
THE PRESIDENT." THAT
EXPLANATION DOESN'T SATISFY
THAT EXPLANATION DOESN'T
SATISFY THE NEW GOVERNMENT.
THE NEW GOVERNMENT. >>
Reporter: BUT FIXING THIS
>> Reporter: BUT FIXING
THIS WON'T BE EASY.
WON'T BE EASY. THERE
IS A SAYING HERE:
THERE IS A SAYING HERE:
WHEN YOU FIGHT CORRUPTION,
CORRUPTION FIGHTS BACK.
CORRUPTION FIGHTS BACK. >>
AND NOW I WENT DOWN, HOLDING
>> AND NOW I WENT DOWN, HOLDING
MY JAW LIKE THIS, AND THE BLOOD
MY JAW LIKE THIS, AND THE
BLOOD WAS JUST GUSHING OUT.
WAS JUST GUSHING OUT. THAT'S
WHEN I HEARD MY CHILDREN
THAT'S WHEN I HEARD MY CHILDREN
SHOUTING, MOMMY'S DYING, MOMMY'S
SHOUTING, MOMMY'S DYING,
MOMMY'S DYING, MOMMY'S DYING.
DYING, MOMMY'S DYING. I QUICKLY
STOOD UP AND WENT BACK
I QUICKLY STOOD UP AND
WENT BACK TO SEE MY WIFE.
TO SEE MY WIFE. AND THE
BLOOD WAS JUST PUMPING
AND THE BLOOD WAS
JUST PUMPING OUT.
OUT. WHEN I HELD
HER, I DISCOVERED
WHEN I HELD HER, I DISCOVERED
THE BULLET ENTERED HERE--
AND CAME OUT HERE.
AND CAME OUT HERE. >>
Reporter: GOWDIN'S WIFE HAD
>> Reporter: GOWDIN'S WIFE HAD
BEEN NURSING THEIR NEWBORN WHEN
SHE WAS KILLED BECAUSE HER
HUSBAND REFUSED TO PAY A $10
HUSBAND REFUSED TO
PAY A $10 BRIBE.
BRIBE. (CRIES)
(CRIES)
(CRIES) >> Reporter:
CORRUPTION STOLE
>> Reporter: CORRUPTION STOLE
THIS MAN'S WIFE, AND THESE
THIS MAN'S WIFE, AND
THESE CHILDREN'S MOTHER.
CHILDREN'S MOTHER. IT WILL
KEEP STEALING NIGERIA'S
IT WILL KEEP STEALING NIGERIA'S
FUTURE, UNLESS NIGERIA FINDS A
FUTURE, UNLESS NIGERIA
FINDS A WAY TO CHANGE.
WAY TO CHANGE. NICK
SCHIFRIN, PBS NEWSHOUR,
NICK SCHIFRIN, PBS
NEWSHOUR, KANO, NIGERIA.
KANO, NIGERIA. >> Ifill:
IN TOMORROW'S FINAL
>> Ifill: IN TOMORROW'S FINAL
STORY, NICK WILL DETAIL THE
ABUSE AND MISTREATMENT OF GAYS
ABUSE AND MISTREATMENT
OF GAYS IN NIGERIA.
>> Ifill: STAY WITH US,
COMING UP ON THE NEWSHOUR:
UP ON THE NEWSHOUR: WHY TWO
DEGREES IS SO IMPORTANT
WHY TWO DEGREES IS SO IMPORTANT
WHEN DISCUSSING CLIMATE CHANGE.
AND A WIND PROJECT THAT SPANS
AND A WIND PROJECT THAT
SPANS TWO COUNTRIES.
TWO COUNTRIES. >> IT'S A
VERY DIFFERENT KIND OF
>> IT'S A VERY DIFFERENT
KIND OF BABY GIFT.
BABY GIFT. FACEBOOK
CO-FOUNDER AND C.E.O.
FACEBOOK CO-FOUNDER AND C.E.O.
MARK ZUCKERBERG ANNOUNCED
YESTERDAY THE BIRTH OF HIS
DAUGHTER WITH A MOST UNUSUAL
DAUGHTER WITH A MOST
UNUSUAL LETTER.
LETTER. HE AND HIS
WIFE, PRISCILLA CHAN,
HE AND HIS WIFE, PRISCILLA CHAN,
WILL DONATE 99% OF THEIR SHARES
IN THE SOCIAL MEDIA GIANT, AN
ESTIMATED $45 BILLION AS OF
ESTIMATED $45 BILLION AS
OF TODAY, TO CHARITY.
TODAY, TO CHARITY. THE
COUPLE CREATED THE CHAN
THE COUPLE CREATED THE CHAN
ZUCKERBERG INITIATIVE, A LIMITED
LIABILITY CORPORATION, ON
"PERSONALIZED LEARNING, CURING
DISEASES & BUILDING STRONG
DISEASES & BUILDING
STRONG COMMUNITIES."
COMMUNITIES." THE
COUPLE RELEASED A SHORT
THE COUPLE RELEASED A SHORT
VIDEO ON FACEBOOK EXPLAINING
VIDEO ON FACEBOOK
EXPLAINING THEIR DECISION.
THEIR DECISION. >> HAVING
THIS CHILD HAS MADE US
>> HAVING THIS CHILD HAS MADE US
THINK ABOUT ALL THE THINGS THAT
SHOULD BE IMPROVED IN THE WORLD
FOR HER WHOLE GENERATION.
THE ONLY WAY WE REACH OUR
POTENTIAL IS TO UNLOCK THE GIFT
OF POTENTIAL OF EVERY PERSON
OF POTENTIAL OF EVERY
PERSON AROUND THE WORLD.
AROUND THE WORLD. >> WE
WANT TO MAKE SURE WE
>> WE WANT TO MAKE SURE WE
INVEST IN PROGRAMS THAT ENSURE
THAT THE FUTURE ISN'T GOING TO
BE LIKE TODAY, THE FUTURE WILL
BE LIKE TODAY, THE FUTURE
WILL BE BETTER THAN TODAY.
BE BETTER THAN TODAY. >>
Ifill: WE GET FOR INSIGHT
>> Ifill: WE GET FOR INSIGHT
INTO THIS DECISION AND THE
LARGER CONTEXT FROM STACY
PALMER, EDITOR OF THE CHRONICLE
PALMER, EDITOR OF THE
CHRONICLE OF PHILANTHROPY.
OF PHILANTHROPY. WELCOME.
WELCOME. >> THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU. >> Ifill:
SHE MENTIONED IT WAS
>> Ifill: SHE MENTIONED IT WAS A
LIMITED LIABILITY CORPORATION,
A LIMITED LIABILITY CORPORATION,
WHAT'S THE DIFFERENCE BETWEEN
THAT AND A NORMAL NONPROFIT.
WE'VE HEARD OF PEOPLE CREATING
FOUNDATION BEFORE BUT THIS SEEMS
FOUNDATION BEFORE BUT
THIS SEEMS DIFFERENT.
DIFFERENT. >> THIS
IS QUITE DIFFERENT.
>> THIS IS QUITE DIFFERENT.
THIS ISN'T LIKE THE GATES
THIS ISN'T LIKE THE
GATES FOUNDATION.
FOUNDATION. MARK
ZUCKERBERG IS SAYING PLAN
MARK ZUCKERBERG IS SAYING PLAN
PHILANTHROPY ISN'T WORKING WELL
PHILANTHROPY ISN'T WORKING
WELL AND WE NEED TO CHANGE IT.
AND WE NEED TO CHANGE IT. THIS
DOESN'T HAVE THE LIMITS ON
THIS DOESN'T HAVE THE LIMITS ON
LOBBYING FOUNDATIONS HAVE NOW.
IT CAN DO MORE INVESTING.
IT CAN DO MORE INVESTING. IT
DOES HAVEN'T TO DISCLOSE AS
IT DOES HAVEN'T TO DISCLOSE AS
MUCH INFORMATION AS A FOUNDATION
MUCH INFORMATION AS
A FOUNDATION DOES.
DOES. IT DOESN'T
HAVE THE REQUIREMENT
IT DOESN'T HAVE THE REQUIREMENT
YOU GET AT LEAST 5% OF GRANTS
YOU GET AT LEAST 5%
OF GRANTS EACH YEAR.
EACH YEAR. SO GOOD
THINGS IN TERMS OF
SO GOOD THINGS IN TERMS OF
FLEXIBILITY IT GIVES TO THE
FLEXIBILITY IT GIVES
TO THE DONOR.
DONOR. THERE ARE
CONCERNS ABOUT THE
THERE ARE CONCERNS ABOUT THE
PUBLIC INTEREST AND I THINK
WE'LL HEAR MORE ABOUT THAT IN
WE'LL HEAR MORE ABOUT
THAT IN THE COMING DAYS.
THE COMING DAYS. >> Ifill:
HOW BIG A PLAYER HAS
>> Ifill: HOW BIG A PLAYER
HAS SILICON VALLEY BECOME IN
SILICON VALLEY BECOME
IN PHILANTHROPY?
PHILANTHROPY? EVERYBODY
IN THE TECH WORLD
EVERYBODY IN THE TECH WORLD
SEEMS TO HAVE THEIR OWN
SEEMS TO HAVE THEIR
OWN FOUNDATION.
FOUNDATION. >> AMONG THE BIGGEST
>> AMONG THE BIGGEST
PHILANTHROPIST IN THE TECH
INDUSTRY IS MORE DOMINANT THAN
IN THE FINANCIAL INDUSTRY WHICH
WE NEVER SAW IN NAN PHILANTHROPO
LOTS OF PEOPLE ARE GIVING AND
THIS IS SOMETHING TO THINK ABOUT
FOR PEOPLE WHO WANT TO GIVE
FOR PEOPLE WHO WANT
TO GIVE BIGGER.
BIGGER. >> Ifill:
THIS IS DIFFERENT
>> Ifill: THIS IS DIFFERENT
THAN THE FORDS AND THE
THAN THE FORDS AND
THE ROCKEFELLERS?
ROCKEFELLERS? >> VERY DIFFERENT.
>> VERY DIFFERENT. THEY'RE
FRUSTRATED THERE ARE ALL
THEY'RE FRUSTRATED THERE ARE ALL
THESE PROBLEMS THAT HAVEN'T BEEN
THESE PROBLEMS THAT HAVEN'T
BEEN SOLVED AND SAY WHY HASN'T
SOLVED AND SAY WHY HASN'T
PHILANTHROPY DONE MORE AND WANT
TO MAKE A -- WANT TO MAKE A
TO MAKE A -- WANT TO
MAKE A DIFFERENCE.
DIFFERENCE. >> Ifill:
IF YOU WERE RUNNING
>> Ifill: IF YOU WERE RUNNING
A CHARITABLE INSTITUTION AND
LOOKING FOR DEEP POCKETS, DOES
THIS CHANGE THE WAY YOU APPROACH
PEOPLE LIKE Facebook FOUNDERS?
>> IT'S VERY CHALLENGING FOR
NONPROFIT PEOPLE IN GENERAL TO
BE ABLE TO GET ACCESS TO FOLKS
IN SILICON VALLEY AND ONE OF THE
THINGS THEY REALLY COMPLAIN
ABOUT IS THAT IT'S VERY HARD TO
GET THEIR VIEWS, THEIR IDEAS TO
REALLY SORT OF GET THEM TO THINK
ABOUT THINGS IN NEW WAYS AND
THIS POSSIBILITY OF SETTING OFF
A LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY
ISN'T GOING TO HELP THAT PROCESS
ISN'T GOING TO HELP
THAT PROCESS ANY MORE.
ANY MORE. BUT I THINK
WHAT IS HOPEFUL IS A
BUT I THINK WHAT IS HOPEFUL IS A
GIFT THAT GOT SO MUCH CRITICISM
BY MARK ZUCKERBERG, HE GAVE
MONEY TO NEW SCHOOLS TO IMPROVE
THEM AND GOT ROUNDLY CRITICIZED
AS A FAILURE, AND I THINK HE'S
LEARNED LESSONS FROM THAT.
>> Ifill: DOES IT MAKE A
DIFFERENCE WHEN PEOPLE START
DIFFERENCE WHEN PEOPLE
START GIVING YOUNG?
GIVING YOUNG? THESE
ARE NOT END-OF-LIFE
THESE ARE NOT
END-OF-LIFE BEQUESTS.
BEQUESTS. >> THAT'S
THE HUGE PART.
>> THAT'S THE HUGE PART. THEY
HAVE TIME TO LEARN TO THINK
THEY HAVE TIME TO LEARN TO
THINK AND DO DIFFERENTLY.
AND DO DIFFERENTLY.
PEOPLE IN THEIR '70s AND
'80s GAVE IT, DIDN'T THINK
'80s GAVE IT, DIDN'T THINK MUCH
ABOUT IT, AND WE FOUND PER
MUCH ABOUT IT, AND WE FOUND PER
PEACH RAIL FOUNDATIONS LIKE
ROCKEFELLER AND FORD EXIST
PERPETUALLY AND NOT LEARN
PERPETUALLY AND NOT
LEARN LESSONS.
LESSONS. AT LEAST THESE
YOUNG PEOPLE CAN
AT LEAST THESE YOUNG PEOPLE
CAN LEARN FROM MISTAKES.
LEARN FROM MISTAKES.
>> Ifill: PART OF THE
CRITICISM THEY'RE OPEN TO IS
THEY'RE NOT ACCOUNTABLE TO ANY
PUBLIC EITHER ELECTED OFFICIALS
OR THE PUBLIC AT ALL.
OR THE PUBLIC AT ALL. THEY
CAN DECIDE WHAT'S IMPORTANT
THEY CAN DECIDE WHAT'S IMPORTANT
AND, BY DEFINITION, WHAT'S NOT
AND, BY DEFINITION,
WHAT'S NOT IMPORTANT.
IMPORTANT. >> THAT'S
THE BIGGEST CONCERN
>> THAT'S THE BIGGEST
CONCERN PEOPLE HAVE.
PEOPLE HAVE. IT JUST
FEELS TO A LOT OF PEOPLE
IT JUST FEELS TO A LOT OF PEOPLE
LIKE A LOT OF INJECTION OF MON
MOY INTO POLITICS AND RICH
PEOPLE DECIDING THINGS WITHOUT
PEOPLE DECIDING THINGS
WITHOUT BEING ELECTED.
BEING ELECTED. >ELECTED.
>ELECTED. >> Ifill:
TO BE CLEAR, THEY'RE
>> Ifill: TO BE CLEAR, THEY'RE
TALKING ABOUT POLITICS.
>> ABSOLUTELY.
>> ABSOLUTELY. THE FACT
THEY WANTED THIS SET UP
THE FACT THEY WANTED THIS SET UP
SO THEY COULD DO MORE LOBBYING
AND BEING INVOLVED IN ADVOCACY
IS A SIGN THEY INTEND TO
INFLUENCE PUBLIC POLICY.
WE SAW THAT WITH THE GATES
FOUNDATION TO INFLUENCE
EDUCATION AND HEALTH.
SO WE'LL SEE A LOT OF
CONTROVERSY BECAUSE OF THAT.
>> Ifill: STACY PALMER AT THE
CHRONICLE OF PHILANTHROPY, THANK
CHRONICLE OF PHILANTHROPY,
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
YOU VERY MUCH. >> THANK YOU.
>> Ifill: THE INTERNATIONAL
CLIMATE TALKS CONTINUE IN PARIS,
WHERE OVER 150 COUNTRIES ARE
TRYING TO REACH AN AGREEMENT TO
LIMIT THE CARBON EMISSIONS THAT
THE VAST MAJORITY OF SCIENTISTS
SAY DRIVE GLOBAL CLIMATE CHANGE.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM HELPS US
UNDERSTAND WHY, ALMOST MORE
THAN ANYTHING, ONE LITTLE
THAN ANYTHING, ONE
LITTLE NUMBER MATTERS.
NUMBER MATTERS. >> Brangham:
FOR SEVERAL YEARS
>> Brangham: FOR SEVERAL YEARS
NOW, THE STATED GOAL OF
INTERNATIONAL CLIMATE TALKS HAS
BEEN TO STOP THE PLANET FROM
WARMING AN ADDITIONAL TWO
WARMING AN ADDITIONAL
TWO DEGREES CELSIUS.
DEGREES CELSIUS. YOU
HEAR THIS TARGET ALL THE
YOU HEAR THIS TARGET
ALL THE TIME:
TIME: >> TWO DEGREES CELSIUS.
>> TWO DEGREES CELSIUS.
>> TWO-DEGREE CAP.
>> TWO-DEGREE CAP. >> WE
MUST STOP AT 2 DEGREES
>> WE MUST STOP AT
2 DEGREES CELSIUS.
CELSIUS. >> Brangham:
BUT HOW REALISTIC
>> Brangham: BUT HOW
REALISTIC IS THAT GOAL?
IS THAT GOAL? AND WHY
IS A TWO DEGREE CELSIUS
AND WHY IS A TWO DEGREE CELSIUS
TARGET CONDERESID IMPORTANT?
AND-- LET'S SAY WE FAIL: WHAT
DOES TWO-- OR THREE-- OR FOUR
DEGREES-- OF ADDITIONAL WARMING
DEGREES-- OF ADDITIONAL
WARMING ACTUALLY MEAN?
ACTUALLY MEAN? A BIT
OF BACKGROUND: FOR THE
A BIT OF BACKGROUND: FOR THE
LAST 10,000 YEARS, THE EARTH'S
TEMPERATURE HAS BEEN FAIRLY
STEADY-- FLUCTUATING BY ONLY
ABOUT ONE DEGREE CELSIUS.
ABOUT ONE DEGREE CELSIUS. YES,
IT'S RISEN AND FALLEN, BUT
YES, IT'S RISEN AND FALLEN,
BUT ALL OF HUMAN EXISTENCE--
ALL OF HUMAN EXISTENCE--
EVERYTHING WE'VE EVER NE ADOS A
SPECIES-- HAS HAPPENED IN THIS
NARROW TEMPERATURE RANGE.
RICHARD ALLEY IS A CLIMATE
SCIENTIST AT PENN STATE
SCIENTIST AT PENN
STATE UNIVERSITY.
UNIVERSITY. >> WE'VE HAD
10,000 FAIRLY WARM,
>> WE'VE HAD 10,000 FAIRLY WARM,
FAIRLY BORING YEARS, WITH LITTLE
WIGGLES CAUSED BY THE SUN
GETTING BRIGHTER OR DIMMER, AND
WIGGLES CAUSED BY VOLCANOES
EXPLODING AND BLOCKING THE SUN
WITH DUST FOR A COUPLE YEARS.
AT THE END OF THIS 10,000 YEARS
OF SORT OF BOREDOM, WE ARE
PUSHING VERY HARD, AND WE ARE
PUSHING VERY HARD IN A NUMBER OF
PUSHING VERY HARD IN A NUMBER
OF WAYS, BUT THE BIGGEST ONE OF
WAYS, BUT THE BIGGEST ONE OF
THOSE IS PUTTING CO2 IN THE AIR
THOSE IS PUTTING CO2 IN THE
AIR TO CAUSE MORE WARMING.
TO CAUSE MORE WARMING. >>
Brangham: THIS CHART SHOWS
>> Brangham: THIS CHART SHOWS
THE HISTORICAL AMOUNT OF CARBON
THE HISTORICAL AMOUNT OF
CARBON DIOXIDE IN THE EARTH'S
DIOXIDE IN THE EARTH'S
ATMOSPHERE-- IT TOO HAS GONE UP
ATMOSPHERE-- IT TOO HAS GONE
UP AND DOWN THROUGH TIME.
AND DOWN THROUGH TIME.
HERE'S WHERE HUMANS CAME IN;
HERE'S WHERE WE STARTED BURNING
OIL AND GAS AND COAL; AND HERE'S
OIL AND GAS AND COAL; AND
HERE'S WHERE WE ARE TODAY.
WHERE WE ARE TODAY. ALL
THAT CARBON, SITTING UP IN
ALL THAT CARBON, SITTING UP IN
THE ATMOSPHERE, TRAPS THE SUN'S
RADIATION AND SLOWLY DRIVES UP
RADIATION AND SLOWLY DRIVES
UP EARTH'S TEMPERATURE.
EARTH'S TEMPERATURE. NOW,
FOR THE FIRST TIME IN OUR
NOW, FOR THE FIRST TIME IN OUR
HISTORY, WE'VE PUSHED ABOVE OUR
HISTORICAL TEMPERATURE RANGE.
THE U.N.'S METEOROLOGICAL AGENCY
SAYS THAT BY THE END OF THIS
YEAR, THE PLANET WILL HAVE
WARMED AN ADDITIONAL ONE DEGREE
CELSIUS SINCE THE LATE 1800s.
THAT'S HALFWAY TO THE TWO DEGREE
CELSIUS LIMIT THAT GLOBAL
LEADERS IN PARIS ARE TRYING TO
LEADERS IN PARIS ARE
TRYING TO AVOID.
AVOID. MICHAEL
OPPENHEIMER IS A CLIMATE
MICHAEL OPPENHEIMER IS A
CLIMATE SCIENTIST AT PRINCETON
SCIENTIST AT
PRINCETON UNIVERSITY
UNIVERSITY >> WE ARE
ENTERING A CLIMATE
>> WE ARE ENTERING A CLIMATE
SPACE NOW WHICH IS ENTIRELY
DIFFERENT THAN ANYTHING THAT'S
EXISTED IN THE HISTORY OF
HUMANITY, AND WAY OUT OF THE
RANGE THAT HAS EXISTED FOR THE
RANGE THAT HAS EXISTED FOR
THE HISTORY OF CIVILIZATION.
HISTORY OF CIVILIZATION. >>
Brangham: OVER MANY DECADES,
>> Brangham: OVER MANY DECADES,
SCIENTISTS HAVE BEEN ASKED: HOW
SCIENTISTS HAVE BEEN ASKED:
HOW MUCH WARMING CAN HUMANITY
MUCH WARMING CAN HUMANITY
TOLERATE, BEFORE EXPERIENCING
THE MOST DESTRUCTIVE AND
DANGEROUS EFFECTS OF CLIMATE
DANGEROUS EFFECTS
OF CLIMATE CHANGE?
CHANGE? THIS IS WHERE
THE THRESHOLD OF
THIS IS WHERE THE THRESHOLD OF
TWO DEGREES CELSIUS, OR ABOUT
3.6 DEGREES FAHRENHEIT, CAME
3.6 DEGREES FAHRENHEIT,
CAME ABOUT.
ABOUT. SCOTT BARRETT OF COLUMBIA
SCOTT BARRETT OF COLUMBIA
UNIVERSITY SERVED ONHE U T.N.'S
CLIMATE PANEL AND NOW STUDIES
GLOBAL CLIMATE TREATIES.
GLOBAL CLIMATE TREATIES. >>
I THINK THAT THE 2 TARGET
>> I THINK THAT THE 2 TARGET
WAS CHOSEN MORE FOR POLITICAL
REASONS THAN FOR TRUE SCIENTIFIC
REASONS THAN FOR TRUE
SCIENTIFIC REASONS.
REASONS. THE IDEA WAS
THE COUNTRIES COULD
THE IDEA WAS THE COUNTRIES COULD
AGREE ON A COLLECTIVE TARGET
THAT WOULD MOBILIZE THE ACTION
NEEDED TO GET THE WHOLE WORLD TO
NEEDED TO GET THE WHOLE
WORLD TO ACT TOGETHER.
ACT TOGETHER. >> Brangham:
WHILE THERE'S SOME
>> Brangham: WHILE THERE'S SOME
UNCERTAINTY ABOUT HOW MUCH OF A
UNCERTAINTY ABOUT HOW MUCH
OF A PROBLEM TWO DEGREES OF
PROBLEM TWO DEGREES OF
ADDITIONAL WARMING WILL BE-- AND
HOW WE'LL BE ABLE TO ADAPT TO
IT-- SCIENTISTS SAY WE'LL LIKELY
SEE LONGER DROUGHTS AND MORE
INTENSE HEAT WAVES, WHICH COULD
CAUSE BIG DISRUPTIONS TO THE
CAUSE BIG DISRUPTIONS TO
THE WORLD'S FOOD SUPPLY.
WORLD'S FOOD SUPPLY. AT TWO
DEGREES, SEA LEVELS COULD
AT TWO DEGREES, SEA LEVELS COULD
RISE SEVERAL FEET, WHICH WOULD
FLOOD MANY COASTAL COMMUNITIES
IN THE U.S. AND POTENTIALLY
CAUSE LARGE MIGRATIONS OF PEOPLE
FROM COUNTRIES LIKE BANGLADESH
AND INDIA AND VIETNAM.
AND INDIA AND VIETNAM. AND
ACCORDING TO THE MOST RECENT
AND ACCORDING TO THE MOST RECENT
DATA, 2015 IS NOW GOING TO BE
THE HOTTEST YEAR ON RECORD.
THE HOTTEST YEAR ON RECORD. >>
IF WE DON'T START WITH RAPID
>> IF WE DON'T START WITH RAPID
EMISSIONS REDUCTIONS AND
SUBSTANTIAL EMISSIONS
REDUCTIONS, THAT WE'LL PASS A
DANGER POINT BEYOND WHICH THE
CONSEQUENCES FOR MANY PEOPLE ON
CONSEQUENCES FOR MANY PEOPLE
ON EARTH WILL SIMPLY BECOME
EARTH WILL SIMPLY BECOME
UNACCEPTABLE AND EVENTUALLY
UNACCEPTABLE AND
EVENTUALLY DISASTROUS.
DISASTROUS. >> THIS ISSUE
HAS ATTRACTED MORE
>> THIS ISSUE HAS ATTRACTED MORE
DIPLOMATIC ATTENTION THAN ANY
ISSUE IN HUMAN HISTORY, AND WHAT
WE'VE SEEN FOR 25 YEARS IS ALL
THESE LITTLE TWEAKS, THESE
MODIFICATIONS THAT HAVE BEEN
TRIED, AND THEY DON'T CHANGE THE
TRIED, AND THEY DON'T CHANGE
THE FUNDAMENTAL RESULT: GLOBAL
FUNDAMENTAL RESULT: GLOBAL
EMISSIONS CONTINUE TO RISE AND
THEY'RE GOING IN THE WRONG
THEY'RE GOING IN THE
WRONG DIRECTION.
DIRECTION. >> Brangham:
SO NOW, WITH OVER
>> Brangham: SO NOW, WITH OVER
LAST YEAR, NASA RELEASED THIS
ANIMATION SHOWING A YEAR'S WORTH
OF GLOBAL CARBON EMISSIONS
COMPRESSED INTO A FEW MINUTES.
AND YOU CAN SEE THE THREE MAIN
CULPRITS RIGHT THERE: THE U.S.,
EUROPE, AND THE NEW TOP EMITTER:
EUROPE, AND THE NEW
TOP EMITTER: CHINA.
CHINA. IN ADVANCE OF
THESE PARIS TALKS,
IN ADVANCE OF THESE PARIS TALKS,
MANY OF THE WORLD'S BIESGGGGT
EMITTERS-- INCLUDING THE TOP
THREE-- HAVE MADE VOLUNTARY
PLEDGES TO CUT BACK THEIR
PLEDGES TO CUT BACK
THEIR EMISSIONS.
EMISSIONS. THEY'RE
CONSIDERED THE MOST
THEY'RE CONSIDERED THE MOST
AMBITIOUS TARGETS EVER PLEDGED,
BUT WILL THEY BE ENOUGH TO STAY
BUT WILL THEY BE ENOUGH TO
STAY BELOW TWO DEGREES?
BELOW TWO DEGREES? TO
ANSWER THAT, A GROUP OF
TO ANSWER THAT, A GROUP OF
RESEARCHERS CREATED WHAT'S
CALLED A "CARBON BUDGET"-- IT'S
AN ESTIMATE OF HOW MUCH CARBON
ENERGY WE CAN CONTINUE TO BURN
WHILE STILL STAYING UNDER THE
WHILE STILL STAYING UNDER
THE TWO DEGREE THRESHOLD:
TWO DEGREE THRESHOLD: AND
AS YOU CAN SEE, FAIRLY
AND AS YOU CAN SEE, FAIRLY
SOON-- A MATTER OF DECADES--
GLOBAL CARBON EMISSIONS WILL
HAVE TO DRASTICALLY GO DOWN TO
HAVE TO DRASTICALLY GO DOWN
TO KEEP THE WARMING IN CHECK.
KEEP THE WARMING IN CHECK.
BUT THERE'S ANOTHER PROBLEM:
JUST TAKING THOSE PLEDGES MADE
BY THE U.S., THE E.U., AND CHINA
ALONE-- BY 2030-- THOSE THREE
WILL ACCOUNT FOR NEARLY ALL THE
BUDGETED EMISSIONS, LEAVING
BARELY ANYTHING FOR THE
REMAINING FIVE BILLION PEOPLE ON
REMAINING FIVE BILLION
PEOPLE ON EARTH.
EARTH. THAT INCLUDES
ENTIRE CONTINENTS
THAT INCLUDES ENTIRE CONTINENTS
LIKE AFRICA AND SOUTH AMERICA.
IT INCLUDES THE SUBCONTINENT OF
INDIA, WHICH WILL INEVITABLY
EMIT MORE AND MORE CARBON AS ITS
1.3 BILLION PEOPLE BUY MORE CARS
1.3 BILLION PEOPLE BUY MORE
CARS AND SHIP MORE GOODS AS ITS
AND SHIP MORE GOODS
AS ITS ECONOMY GROWS.
ECONOMY GROWS. THIS IS
THE CHALLENGE FACING
THIS IS THE CHALLENGE FACING
POLICY MAKERS IN PARIS: HOW DOES
THE WORLD ACCOMMODATE BILLIONS
OF PEOPLE-- ALL WITH GROWING
ENERGY NEEDS THAT SCIENTISTS SAY
ENERGY NEEDS THAT SCIENTISTS
SAY THE PLANET SIMPLY CAN'T
THE PLANET SIMPLY
CAN'T TOLERATE?
TOLERATE? MOST
SCIENTISTS SEE CLIMATE
MOST SCIENTISTS SEE CLIMATE
CHANGE AS THE BIGGEST, MOST
COMPLICATED, LONG TERM CHALLENGE
COMPLICATED, LONG TERM
CHALLENGE THE WORLD HAS FACED.
THE WORLD HAS FACED. BUT FOR
SOME, THERE'S OPTIMISM.
BUT FOR SOME, THERE'S OPTIMISM.
>> WE'RE NOT GOING TO STABILIZE
THE COMPOSITION OF THE
ATMOSPHERE TODAY.
ATMOSPHERE TODAY. THERE
ARE A LOT OF PEOPLE WHO
THERE ARE A LOT OF PEOPLE WHO
DROVE TO WORK THIS MORNING
WHO'RE GOING TO DRIVE HOME THIS
WHO'RE GOING TO DRIVE
HOME THIS EVENING.
EVENING. CHANGING THE
ENERGY SYSTEM IS A
CHANGING THE ENERGY SYSTEM IS
A 30-YEAR TASK, OR LONGER.
30-YEAR TASK, OR LONGER. YOU
COULD LOOK AT THIS AND SAY,
YOU COULD LOOK AT THIS AND SAY,
"WOW, WE'RE IN TROUBLE," YOU
ALSO COULD LOOK AT THIS AND SAY
"A JOURNEY OF 1,000 MILES STARTS
WI A STHINGLE STEP," AND, BY
STARTING ON THE PATH, THAT WE'LL
GET THERE, WE WILL GENERATE THE
KNOWLEDGE, WE WILL GENERATE THE
TECHNOLOGIES, AND THE WILL, TO
TECHNOLOGIES, AND THE
WILL, TO DO MORE.
DO MORE. >> Brangham:
PRESIDENT OBAMA--
>> Brangham: PRESIDENT OBAMA--
BEFORE HE LEFT PARIS YESTERDAY--
ECHOED THIS OPTIMISM.
ECHOED THIS OPTIMISM. >> I
THINK WE'RE GOING TO SOLVE
>> I THINK WE'RE
GOING TO SOLVE IT.
IT. I THINK THE
ISSUE IS JUST GOING
I THINK THE ISSUE IS JUST GOING
TO BE THE PACE AND HOW MUCH
DAMAGE IS DONE BEFORE WE ARE
ABLE TO FULLY APPLY THE BRAKES.
>> Brangham: OTHERS ARE DUBIOUS.
THEY ARGUE THAT THE PARIS
TALKS-- WHICH ARE BASED ON
VOLUNTARY PLEDGES-- SIMPLY WON'T
DEMAND ENOUGH TO KEEP THE PLANET
BELOW THE TWO DEGREE THRESHOLD.
>> IT'S SOMEWHAT, I THINK,
DECEPTIVE TO THINK THAT THIS IS
DECEPTIVE TO THINK THAT
THIS IS A SUCCESS.
A SUCCESS. THERE'S NO
ENFORCEMENT MECHANISM
THERE'S NO ENFORCEMENT MECHANISM
AT ALL IN THIS AGREEMENT.
SO IT'S EASY TO AGREE TO
SOMETHING WHEN YOU ANNOUNCE THE
PLEDGE YOURSELF AND WHEN YOU
KNOW YOU'RE NOT REALLY GOING TO
KNOW YOU'RE NOT REALLY GOING
TO BE HELD ACCOUNTABLE AS TO
BE HELD ACCOUNTABLE AS TO
WHETHER YOU MEET THE PLEDGE OR
WHETHER YOU MEET
THE PLEDGE OR NOT.
NOT. >> Brangham:
MOST SCIENTISTS
>> Brangham: MOST SCIENTISTS
BELIEVE THAT EVEN IF EVERY
COUNTRY FOLLOWED THROUGH 100% ON
THEIR VOLUNTARY PLEDGES, THERE'S
ALREADY ENOUGH CO2 IN THE
ATMOSPHERE TO WARM THE PLANET BY
ATMOSPHERE TO WARM THE
PLANET BY TWO DEGREES.
TWO DEGREES. SCIENTISTS
AND WORLD LEADERS IN
SCIENTISTS AND WORLD LEADERS IN
PARIS HOPE THAT EVEN IF THIS
THRESHOLD IS BREACHED, NATIONS
WILL NOT JUST FOLLOW THROUGH ON
THEIR PLEDGES, BUT WILL AGREE TO
DIAL BACK EMISSIONS EVEN MORE IN
DIAL BACK EMISSIONS EVEN
MORE IN THE FUTURE.
THE FUTURE. FOR THE
PBS NEWSHOUR, I'M
FOR THE PBS NEWSHOUR, I'M
WILLIAM BRANGHAM, IN WASHINGTON
WILLIAM BRANGHAM,
IN WASHINGTON D.C.
>> Ifill: WE'LL BE BACK WITH A
LOOK AT A WIND PROJECT THAT
LOOK AT A WIND PROJECT
THAT CROSSES BORDERS.
CROSSES BORDERS. BUT
FIRST, TAKE THIS MOMENT TO
BUT FIRST, TAKE THIS MOMENT
TO HEAR FROM YOUR LOCAL PBS
HEAR FROM YOUR
LOCAL PBS STATION.
STATION. IT'S A
CHANCE TO OFFER YOUR
IT'S A CHANCE TO OFFER YOUR
SUPPORT, WHICH HELPS KEEP
PROGRAMS LIKE OURS ON THE AIR.
FOR THOSE STATIONS STILL WITH
AFFILIATES, THE WIND FARM
STARTED SENDING ELECTRICITY
ACROSS THE BORDER THIS SUMMER.
>> (translated): WE
LEASE THE
LEASE THE LAND TO THE COMPANY.
LAND TO THE COMPANY. RIGHT?
RIGHT? AND THE COMPANY PUT THE
AND THE COMPANY PUT THE
TURBINES, GIVING US A PERCENTAGE
TURBINES, GIVING US A
PERCENTAGE OF THEIR PROFITS.
OF THEIR PROFITS. >>
Reporter: MERCADO SAYS EACH
>> Reporter: MERCADO SAYS EACH
PERSON IN THE COMMUNE GETS ABOUT
$2,000 A MONTH FROM THE WIND
$2,000 A MONTH FROM
THE WIND FARM.
FARM. THAT'S HUGE
FOR JACUME , WHERE
THAT'S HUGE FOR JACUME , WHERE
THE MAIN SOURCE OF INCOME HAD
THE MAIN SOURCE OF INCOME
HAD BEEN LIVESTOCK.
BEEN LIVESTOCK. >> (
translated): THE
>> (translated): THE
LAND WASN'T APT FOR PLANTINGS,
OR EVEN CONSTRUCTION, BECAUSE
OR EVEN CONSTRUCTION,
BECAUSE IT'S ALL JUST ROCK.
IT'S ALL JUST ROCK. THE
WIND FARM GIVES US MONEY TO
THE WIND FARM GIVES US MONEY TO
SURVIVE WITHOUT HAVING TO WORK.
SURVIVE WITHOUT HAVING TO
WORK. THAT'S WHAT WE WANT.
THAT'S WHAT WE WANT.
NOT TO HAVE TO WORK.
NOT TO HAVE TO WORK. >>
Reporter: 100% OF THE
>> Reporter: 100% OF THE
ELECTRICITY IS SOLD TO SAN DIEGO
GAS & ELECTRIC THROUGH A CROSS-
BORDER TRANSMISSION LINE.
THE PROJECT IS PART OF A
STATEWIDE SCRAMBLE FOR
RENEWABLE ENERGY.
CALIFORNIA MUST GET HALF OF
CALIFORNIA MUST GET HALF OF ITS
ELECTRICITY FROM RENEWABLES
ITS ELECTRICITY FROM
RENEWABLES BY 2030.
BY 2030. TO HELP
ACHIEVE THAT GOAL,
TO HELP ACHIEVE THAT GOAL,
ENERGIA SIERRA JUAREZ PLANS TO
EXPAND ITS PRODUCTION CAPACITY
BY CLOSE TO 700%, BUILDING
HUNDREDS OF ADDITIONAL TURBINES
ON THE MOUNTAIN RANGE.
ON THE MOUNTAIN RANGE. BUT
THE ENTIRE PROJECT IS BEING
BUT THE ENTIRE PROJECT IS
BEING CHALLENGED IN COURT.
CHALLENGED IN COURT. MARK
OSTRANDER LIVES IN JACUMBA
MARK OSTRANDER LIVES IN JACUMBA
HOT SPRINGS, FOOTSTEPS FROM THE
HOT SPRINGS, FOOTSTEPS
FROM THE BORDER FENCE.
BORDER FENCE. HE LIVES
COMPLETELY OFF THE
HE LIVES COMPLETELY OFF THE
GRID, WITH SOLAR PANELS AND A
VERTICAL AXIS WIND TURBINE HE
VERTICAL AXIS WIND
TURBINE HE INSTALLED.
INSTALLED. >> I DON'T
PAY A UTILITY BILL AT
>> I DON'T PAY A UTILITY BILL AT
THIS POINT BECAUSE I HAVE SOLAR
THIS POINT BECAUSE I
HAVE SOLAR AND WIND.
AND WIND. I'M TRYING
TO DO MY PART TO
I'M TRYING TO DO MY PART TO
REDUCE MY CARBON FOOTPRINT.
>Repo> rter: SO IT MAY SEEM
UNUSUAL THAT OSTRANDER IS PART
OF THE FEDERAL LAWSUIT AGAINST
THE HISTORIC WIND FARM JUST
THE HISTORIC WIND FARM
JUST ACROSS THE BORDER.
ACROSS THE BORDER. OSTRANDER
CAN SEE THE TURBINES
OSTRANDER CAN SEE THE TURBINES
FROM HIS PROPERTY, AND HE'S
FROM HIS PROPERTY, AND
HE'S CONCERNED ABOUT FIRE.
CONCERNED ABOUT FIRE. HE'S
A RETIRED BATTALIOCHIEN F
HE'S A RETIRED BATTALIOCHIEN F
FOR THE CALIFORNIA DEPARTMENT OF
FORESTRY AND FIRE PROTECTION.
FORESTRY AND FIRE PROTECTION. >>
MY MAIN FORTE WAS IN WILDLAD
>> MY MAIN FORTE WAS IN
WILDLAD FIRE-FIGHTING.
FIRE-FIGHTING. >>
Reporter: HE SAYS THE
>> Reporter: HE SAYS THE
INDUSTRIAL SCALE OF ENERGIA
SIERRA JUAREZ MAKES IT A FIRE
THREAT, ESPECIALLY DURING
THREAT, ESPECIALLY
DURING DROUGHT.
DROUGHT. IT INCLUDES
47 TURBINES, A
IT INCLUDES 47 TURBINES, A
NEARLY FIVE-MILE CROSS-BORDER
TRANSMISSION LINE AND 25 MILES
TRANSMISSION LINE AND
25 MILES OF NEW ROADS.
OF NEW ROADS. >> ALL
THESE AGENCIES AND
>> ALL THESE AGENCIES AND
COMPANIES ARE IN LOCKSTEP ON
THIS GREEN ENERGY RUSH, WHETHER
IT'S ACTUALLY BENEFICIAL TO US
IT'S ACTUALLY BENEFICIAL
TO US OR NOT.
OR NOT. >> Reporter:
THAT'S DONNA
>> Reporter: THAT'S DONNA
TISDALE, WHO LIVES NORTHWEST OF
TISDALE, WHO LIVES NORTHWEST
OF OSTRANDER, IN BOULEVARD.
OSTRANDER, IN BOULEVARD.
SHE'S LEADING THE LAWSUIT
AGAINST ENERGI A SIERRA JUA REZ
AND THE U.S. GOVERNMENT AGENCIES
THAT APPROVED THE PROJECT.
THAT APPROVED THE PROJECT. THE
LAWSUIT CLAIMS THE PROJECT
THE LAWSUIT CLAIMS THE PROJECT
VIOLATES U.S. AND CALIFORIAN
ENVIRONMENTAL LAWS THAT PROTECT
THE ENDANGERED PENINSULAR
BIGHORN SHEEP, GOLDEN EAGLES AND
OTHER WILDLIFE ON THE MOUNTAIN
OTHER WILDLIFE ON
THE MOUNTAIN RANGE.
RANGE. THE RANGE
STRADDLES THE BORDER,
THE RANGE STRADDLES THE BORDER,
AND ENVIRONMENTALISTS SAY THAT
EVEN THOUGH THE TURBINES ARE
LOCATED ON THE MEXICAN SIDE OF
LOCATED ON THE MEXICAN SIDE OF ,
, ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS HAVE
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS HAVE
SPREAD TO THE US SIDE AS WELL,
BECAUSE THE TWO HABITATS ARE
BECAUSE THE TWO HABITATS
ARE INTERCONNECTED AND
INTERCONNECTED AND
INTERDEPENDENT.
INTERDEPENDENT. DEFENDANTS
COUNTER THAT THE
DEFENDANTS COUNTER THAT THE
PROJECT IS COMPLETELY LEGAL
BECAUSE IT WAS APPROVED BY
MEXICO'S NATIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL
AGENCY, WHOSE REPRESENTATIVE IN
AGENCY, WHOSE REPRESENTATIVE
IN BAJA IS ALFONSO BLANCAFORT.
BAJA IS ALFONSO BLANCAFORT. >> (
translated): IT NOT ONLY
>> (translated): IT NOT
ONLY MEETS THE ENVIRONMENTAL
IMPACT
MEETS THE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT
REQUIREMENTS, IT ALSO DEALS WITH
REQUIREMENTS, IT ALSO DEALS
WITH CLIMATE CHANGE AND GLOBAL
CLIMATE CHANGE AND
GLOBAL WARMING PROBLEMS.
WARMING PROBLEMS. >>
Reporter: BLANCAFORT SAYS
>> Reporter: BLANCAFORT SAYS
MEXICO IS BENEFITING FROM THE
PROJECT EVEN THOUGH IT'S NOT
GETTING ANY OF THE ELECTRICITY.
>> (translated): HERE
WE HAVE
WE HAVE THE PERCEPTION OF BEING
A
THE PERCEPTION OF
BEING A REGION.
REGION. IF WE HAVE
A WIND FARM THAT
IF WE HAVE A WIND FARM THAT
GENERATES ELECTRICITY WITH A LOW
IMPACT ON THE ENVIRONMENT AND
IMPACT ON THE ENVIRONMENT
AND LOWER EMISSIONS TO THE
LOWER EMISSIONS TO THE
ATMOSPHERE, THIS WHOLE REGION
ATMOSPHERE, THIS WHOLE
REGION BENEFITS.
BENEFITS. >> Reporter:
THE U.S. DEPARTMENT
>> Reporter: THE U.S. DEPARTMENT
OF ENERGY DID NOT RESPOND TO
OF ENERGY DID NOT RESPOND
TO REQUESTS FOR COMMENT.
REQUESTS FOR COMMENT. SEMPRA
ENERGY ALSO DECLINED AN
SEMPRA ENERGY ALSO
DECLINED AN INTERVIEW.
INTERVIEW. BACK IN
JACUME , MEXICO, JOSE
BACK IN JACUME , MEXICO, JOSE
MERCADO SAYS HE WAS CONCERNED
ABOUT POSSIBLE HARM TO LOCAL
WILDLIFE, BUT HE DECIDED IT
WILDLIFE, BUT HE DECIDED
IT WASN'T HIS PRIORITY.
WASN'T HIS PRIORITY. >> (
translated): THAT'S THE
>> (translated): THAT'S
THE WAY OF THE MEXICAN.
WAY OF THE MEXICAN. WE SEE
THE CASH AND THE PRESENT,
WE SEE THE CASH AND THE PRESENT,
NOT THE PEOPLE IN FRONT OR
NOT THE PEOPLE IN
FRONT OR BEHIND US.
BEHIND US. LIKE THE
GOVERNMENT, WHICH
LIKE THE GOVERNMENT, WHICH
THINKS ONLY OF ITS PURSE.
THINKS ONLY OF ITS PURSE. >>
Reporter: BUT ON THE U.S.
>> Reporter: BUT ON THE U.S.
SIDE OF THE BORDER, DONNA
TISDALE CONTINUES HER LEGAL
BATTLE, SAYING SHE DOESN'T BLAME
THE MEXICANS FOR ACCEPTING THE
THE MEXICANS FOR ACCEPTING
THE PROJECT ON THEIR LAND.
PROJECT ON THEIR LAND. >>
Reporter: AS THE PROJECT
>> Reporter: AS THE PROJECT
GROWS, THE DIVIDE BETEN
MEXICANS WHO BENEFIT
ECONOMICALLY AND AMERICANS WHO
ARE OPPOSED FOR ENVIRONMENTAL
REASONS IS LIKELY TO INTENSIFY
IN THE COMING YEARS.
IN THE COMING YEARS. FOR
THE PBS NEWSHOUR, I'M JEAN
FOR THE PBS NEWSHOUR, I'M JEAN
GUERRERO IN JACUME , MEXICO.
>> Ifill: NOW, UPDATING THE MASS
SHOOTING IN SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA:
14 PEOPLE WERE KILLED AND 17
WOUNDED TODAY AT A SOCIAL
SERVICES CENTER IN SAN
BERNARDINO, CALIFORNIA.
BERNARDINO, CALIFORNIA. UP
TO THREE GUNMEN IN MILITARY-
UP TO THREE GUNMEN IN MILITARY-
STYLE OUTFITS CARRIED OUT THE
ATTACK, THEN GOT AWAY, POSSIBLY
ATTACK, THEN GOT AWAY,
POSSIBLY IN A DARK S.U.V.
IN A DARK S.U.V. LATER,
POLICE SHOT IT OUT WITH
LATER, POLICE SHOT IT OUT WITH
AT LEAST ONE SUSPECT IN A
AT LEAST ONE SUSPECT IN
A VEHICLE MATCHING THAT
VEHICLE MATCHING
THAT DESCRIPTION.
DESCRIPTION. LOCAL TV
SHOWED THE WINDOWS SHOT
LOCAL TV SHOWED THE WINDOWS SHOT
OUT, AND A BODY IN THE STREET,
WITH WHAT APPEARED TO BE A RIFLE
WITH WHAT APPEARED TO
BE A RIFLE NEARBY.
NEARBY. A SECOND
SUSPECT APPEARED TO BE
A SECOND SUSPECT APPEARED
TO BE INSIDE THE VEHICLE.
INSIDE THE VEHICLE.
THERE WAS NO IMMEDIATE
CONFIRMATION THAT THE INCIDENT
IS RELATED TO THE EARLIER
IS RELATED TO THE
EARLIER ATTACKS.
ATTACKS. AND THAT'S
THE NEWSHOUR FOR
AND THAT'S THE
NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT.
TONIGHT. I'M GWEN IFILL.
I'M GWEN IFILL. WE'LL
HAVE UPDATES ONLINE AND
WE'LL HAVE UPDATES ONLINE AND
AGAIN HERE TOMORROW EVENING.
FOR ALL OF US AT THE PBS
FOR ALL OF US AT
THE PBS NEWSHOUR,
NEWSHOUR, THANK YOU
AND GOOD NIGHT.